A Faun Teased by Children. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . A Faun Teased by Children is a marble sculpture by Italian artists Gian Lorenzo Bernini and his father Pietro Bernini. It was executed in 1616 and 1617, when Gian Lorenzo was not yet twenty years old. It is currently in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.. A Faun Teased by Children is a marble sculpture by Italian artists Gian Lorenzo Bernini and his father Pietro Bernini. It was executed in 1616 and 1617, when Gian Lorenzo was not yet twenty years old. It is currently in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.. 
A Girl with a Watering Can. Author Name: Pierre-Auguste Renoir. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . A Girl with a Watering Can is an Impressionist painting by Pierre-Auguste Renoir from 1876. The work was apparently painted in Monet's famous garden at Argenteuil. This painting is of Mademoiselle Leclere in her blue dress holding a watering can.. A Girl with a Watering Can is an Impressionist painting by Pierre-Auguste Renoir from 1876. The work was apparently painted in Monet's famous garden at Argenteuil. This painting is of Mademoiselle Leclere in her blue dress holding a watering can.. 
A Man with a Quilted Sleeve. Author Name: Titian. . . A Man with a Quilted Sleeve is a c. 1509 painting by Titian now held at the National Gallery, London.. A Man with a Quilted Sleeve is a c. 1509 painting by Titian now held at the National Gallery, London.. 
''A Meadow in the Mountains:. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . A Meadow in the Mountains: Le Mas de Saint-Paul was painted by Vincent van Gogh in 1889.In May 1889 Van Gogh voluntarily entered the asylum of St. Paul near Saint-Rémy in Provence. There Van Gogh had access to an adjacent cell he used as his studio. He was initially confined to the immediate asylum grounds and painted (without the bars) the world he saw from his room, such as ivy covered trees, lilacs, and irises of the garden. Through the open bars Van Gogh could also see an enclosed wheat field, subject of many paintings at Saint-Rémy. As he ventured outside the asylum walls he painted the wheat fields, olive groves and cypress trees of the surrounding countryside, which he saw as "characteristic of Provence." Over the course of the year, he painted about 150 canvases.. A Meadow in the Mountains: Le Mas de Saint-Paul was painted by Vincent van Gogh in 1889. In May 1889 Van Gogh voluntarily entered the asylum of St. Paul near Saint-Rémy in Provence. There Van Gogh had access to an adjacent cell he used as his studio. He was initially confined to the immediate asylum grounds and painted (without the bars) the world he saw from his room, such as ivy covered trees, lilacs, and irises of the garden. Through the open bars Van Gogh could also see an enclosed wheat field, subject of many paintings at Saint-Rémy. As he ventured outside the asylum walls he painted the wheat fields, olive groves and cypress trees of the surrounding countryside, which he saw as "characteristic of Provence." Over the course of the year, he painted about 150 canvases.. 
A Street in Brittany. Author Name: Stanhope Forbes. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Newlyn_School. . A Street in Brittany is a painting dated 1881 by the artist Stanhope Forbes.Forbes was born in Dublin in 1857. When his family moved to England he studied at Dulwich College, the Lambeth School of Art and the Royal Academy Schools. In 1880 he went to Paris where he was influenced by the French artist Jules Bastien-Lepage. The following year he went to work in Cancale, a small fishing village near Saint-Malo in Brittany.. A Street in Brittany is a painting dated 1881 by the artist Stanhope Forbes. Forbes was born in Dublin in 1857. When his family moved to England he studied at Dulwich College, the Lambeth School of Art and the Royal Academy Schools. In 1880 he went to Paris where he was influenced by the French artist Jules Bastien-Lepage. The following year he went to work in Cancale, a small fishing village near Saint-Malo in Brittany. A Street in Brittany was Forbes' first "out-of-doors" painting, and it shows Breton women knitting and making nets in a street in Cancale. For the girl in the foreground Forbes used as his model a young girl from the village named Desiree, who insisted on a daily payment. He was anxious about how his picture would be received, partly about the figure in the foreground being out of scale with the rest of the figures, and possibly about the visible brush-work and the picture's overall blue tone. A critic in the Pall Mall Gazette accused him of "seeing nature through blue spectacles". The painting was shown at the Royal Academy Summer Exhibition in 1882 and then at the Liverpool Autumn Exhibition. It was bought by the Walker Art Gallery for £73.50 (£6,000 as of 2016). Forbes later moved to Cornwall where he became a leading figure in the Newlyn School of painters. The painting is in oil on canvas and measures 104.2 centimetres (41 in) by 75.8 centimetres (30 in).. 
A Vision of Fiammetta. Author Name: Dante Gabriel Rossetti. . . A Vision of Fiammetta is an oil painting in the Pre-Raphaelite which was created by Dante Gabriel Rossetti in 1878. The painting was one half of one of Rossetti's "double works", accompanying his Ballads and Sonnets (1881). Maria Spartali Stillman modelled for the painting. The subject of painting is Boccacio's muse named Fiammetta.. A Vision of Fiammetta is an oil painting in the Pre-Raphaelite which was created by Dante Gabriel Rossetti in 1878. The painting was one half of one of Rossetti's "double works", accompanying his Ballads and Sonnets (1881). Maria Spartali Stillman modelled for the painting. The subject of painting is Boccacio's muse named Fiammetta.. 
A Wind-Beaten Tree. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . A Wind-Beaten Tree is an oil painting created in 1883 by Vincent van Gogh.. A Wind-Beaten Tree is an oil painting created in 1883 by Vincent van Gogh.. 
Young Girl Reading. Author Name: Jean-Honoré Fragonard. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Rococo. . Young Girl Reading, or The Reader (French: La Liseuse), is an 18th-century oil painting by Jean-Honoré Fragonard. It was purchased by the National Gallery of Art in Washington, DC in 1961 using funds donated by Ailsa Mellon Bruce, the daughter of Andrew W. Mellon, following her father's death.. Young Girl Reading, or The Reader (French: La Liseuse), is an 18th-century oil painting by Jean-Honoré Fragonard. It was purchased by the National Gallery of Art in Washington, DC in 1961 using funds donated by Ailsa Mellon Bruce, the daughter of Andrew W. Mellon, following her father's death..
A Young Tiger Playing with its Mother. Author Name: Eugène Delacroix. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . A Young Tiger Playing with its Mother is a painting of 1830-31 by French artist Eugène Delacroix depicting two enormous tigers "playing" with each other. Painted early in his career, it shows how the artist was attracted to animal subjects in this period. The painting was exhibited at the Salon of 1831, and archives of Delacroix's will executor, Achille Piron, revealed that the painter had paid 1,200 francs to insure it. It belonged to M. Maurice Cottier and now is on display at Room 77 of Louvre in Paris.. A Young Tiger Playing with its Mother is a painting of 1830-31 by French artist Eugène Delacroix depicting two enormous tigers "playing" with each other. Painted early in his career, it shows how the artist was attracted to animal subjects in this period. The painting was exhibited at the Salon of 1831, and archives of Delacroix's will executor, Achille Piron, revealed that the painter had paid 1,200 francs to insure it. It belonged to M. Maurice Cottier and now is on display at Room 77 of Louvre in Paris..
Acton. Author Name: James Turrell. . . Acton is an artwork created by American artist James Turrell in 1976, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States of America. It consists of two rooms with an aperture between them, carefully illuminated such that the rectangular hole appears to be a flat, gray canvas until closer inspection reveals its three-dimensional nature.. Acton is an artwork created by American artist James Turrell in 1976, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States of America. It consists of two rooms with an aperture between them, carefully illuminated such that the rectangular hole appears to be a flat, gray canvas until closer inspection reveals its three-dimensional nature..
Ad Astra. Author Name: Richard Lippold. . . Ad Astra is a public artwork by American artist Richard Lippold. The abstract sculpture is located outside on the Jefferson Drive entrance of and in the collection of the National Air and Space Museum. The sculpture's title is Latin, meaning "to the stars.". Ad Astra is a public artwork by American artist Richard Lippold. The abstract sculpture is located outside on the Jefferson Drive entrance of and in the collection of the National Air and Space Museum. The sculpture's title is Latin, meaning "to the stars.".
Adoration of the Magi. Author Name: Antonio da Correggio. . Author Movement: Mannerism. . The Adoration of the Magi is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance painter Correggio, executed around 1515–1518. It is housed in the Pinacoteca di Brera of Milan, Italy.. The Adoration of the Magi is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance painter Correggio, executed around 1515–1518. It is housed in the Pinacoteca di Brera of Milan, Italy..
Orphan Man with Top Hat. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Adrianus Jacobus Zuyderland was  Vincent van Gogh's favorite model during his Hague period. He appears in dozens of drawings, easily identified by his bald head and prominent white whiskers, and he was the model for the drawing which was the basis for van Gogh's later iconic painting At Eternity's Gate.. Adrianus Jacobus Zuyderland was Vincent van Gogh's favorite model during his Hague period. He appears in dozens of drawings, easily identified by his bald head and prominent white whiskers, and he was the model for the drawing which was the basis for van Gogh's later iconic painting At Eternity's Gate..
Air. Author Name: Aristide Maillol. . . Air is a lead or bronze sculpture, by Aristide Maillol.He modeled Dina Vierny in plaster in 1938, and casts were made after his death. It is an edition of six.Examples are located at the Kröller-Müller Museum, Yale University Art Gallery, Jardin des Tuileries, J. Paul Getty Museum, Norton Simon Museum, and Kimbell Art Museum.. Air is a lead or bronze sculpture, by Aristide Maillol. He modeled Dina Vierny in plaster in 1938, and casts were made after his death. It is an edition of six. Examples are located at the Kröller-Müller Museum, Yale University Art Gallery, Jardin des Tuileries, J. Paul Getty Museum, Norton Simon Museum, and Kimbell Art Museum..
Alamo. Author Name: Rosenthal, Bernard. . Author Movement: American abstract expressionism. . Alamo, also known as the Astor Place Cube or simply The Cube, is an outdoor sculpture by Bernard (Tony) Rosenthal, located on Astor Place, in the East Village, Manhattan, New York City. It takes the form of a black cube, 8 feet (2.4 m) long on each side, mounted on a corner. The cube is made of Cor-Ten steel and weighs about 1,800 pounds (820 kg). The faces of the cube are not flat but have various indentations, protrusions, and ledges. The sculpture's name, Alamo, is designated on a small plaque on one corner of the base and was selected by the artist's wife because its scale and mass reminded her of the Alamo Mission.. Alamo, also known as the Astor Place Cube or simply The Cube, is an outdoor sculpture by Bernard (Tony) Rosenthal, located on Astor Place, in the East Village, Manhattan, New York City. It takes the form of a black cube, 8 feet (2.4 m) long on each side, mounted on a corner. The cube is made of Cor-Ten steel and weighs about 1,800 pounds (820 kg). The faces of the cube are not flat but have various indentations, protrusions, and ledges. The sculpture's name, Alamo, is designated on a small plaque on one corner of the base and was selected by the artist's wife because its scale and mass reminded her of the Alamo Mission..
Allegory of Fortune. Author Name: Salvator Rosa. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Allegory of Fortune, sometimes also named La Fortuna, is an oil painting on canvas that was created around 1658 or 1659 by the Italian baroque painter, Salvator Rosa, which caused uproar when first exhibited publicly and almost got the painter jailed and excommunicated. Bearing initials, but undated, it measures 200.7 by 133 centimetres (79.0 by 52.4 in). Rosa was known for his landscape paintings, but also worked in the sphere of mythology, witchcraft, portraits, and satire. Since 1978 it has been in the J. Paul Getty Museum in Malibu, California.. Allegory of Fortune, sometimes also named La Fortuna, is an oil painting on canvas that was created around 1658 or 1659 by the Italian baroque painter, Salvator Rosa, which caused uproar when first exhibited publicly and almost got the painter jailed and excommunicated. Bearing initials, but undated, it measures 200.7 by 133 centimetres (79.0 by 52.4 in). Rosa was known for his landscape paintings, but also worked in the sphere of mythology, witchcraft, portraits, and satire. Since 1978 it has been in the J. Paul Getty Museum in Malibu, California..
Allegory of Virtue and Vice. Author Name: Paolo Veronese. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . Allegory of Virtue and Vice, Allegory of Wisdom and Strength or The Choice of Hercules is a painting by Paolo Veronese, produced in 1580 and now in the Frick Collection.. Allegory of Virtue and Vice, Allegory of Wisdom and Strength or The Choice of Hercules is a painting by Paolo Veronese, produced in 1580 and now in the Frick Collection..
Almond Blossom, 1890. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Almond Blossoms is from a group of several paintings made in 1888 and 1890 by Vincent van Gogh in Arles and Saint-Rémy, southern France of blossoming almond trees. Flowering trees were special to Van Gogh. They represented awakening and hope. He enjoyed them aesthetically and found joy in painting flowering trees. The works reflect Impressionist, Divisionist and Japanese woodcut influences. Almond Blossoms was made to celebrate the birth of his nephew and namesake, son of his brother Theo and sister-in-law Jo.. Almond Blossoms is from a group of several paintings made in 1888 and 1890 by Vincent van Gogh in Arles and Saint-Rémy, southern France of blossoming almond trees. Flowering trees were special to Van Gogh. They represented awakening and hope. He enjoyed them aesthetically and found joy in painting flowering trees. The works reflect Impressionist, Divisionist and Japanese woodcut influences. Almond Blossoms was made to celebrate the birth of his nephew and namesake, son of his brother Theo and sister-in-law Jo..
Andromache Mourning Hector. Author Name: Jacques-Louis David. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . Andromache Mourning Hector is a 1783 oil painting by Jacques-Louis David. The painting depicts an image from Homer's Iliad, showing Andromache, comforted by her son, mourning over her husband Hector, who has been killed by Achilles. This painting, presented on 23 August 1783, brought David election to the Académie Royale in 1784.. Andromache Mourning Hector is a 1783 oil painting by Jacques-Louis David. The painting depicts an image from Homer's Iliad, showing Andromache, comforted by her son, mourning over her husband Hector, who has been killed by Achilles. This painting, presented on 23 August 1783, brought David election to the Académie Royale in 1784..
Apolinère Enameled. Author Name: Marcel Duchamp. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Conceptual_art. . Apolinère Enameled was painted c. 1916 by Marcel Duchamp, as a heavily altered version of an advertisement for paint ("Sapolin Enamel"). The picture depicts a girl painting a bed-frame with white enamelled paint. The depiction of the frame deliberately includes conflicting perspective lines, to produce an impossible object. To emphasise the deliberate impossibility of the shape, a piece of the frame is missing. The piece is sometimes referred to as Duchamp's "impossible bed" painting.. Apolinère Enameled was painted c. 1916 by Marcel Duchamp, as a heavily altered version of an advertisement for paint ("Sapolin Enamel"). The picture depicts a girl painting a bed-frame with white enamelled paint. The depiction of the frame deliberately includes conflicting perspective lines, to produce an impossible object. To emphasise the deliberate impossibility of the shape, a piece of the frame is missing. The piece is sometimes referred to as Duchamp's "impossible bed" painting..
Apollo and Daphne. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Apollo and Daphne is a life-sized Baroque marble sculpture by Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini, executed between 1622 and 1625. Housed in the Galleria Borghese in Rome, the work depicts the climax of the story of Daphne and Phoebus in Ovid's Metamorphoses.. Apollo and Daphne is a life-sized Baroque marble sculpture by Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini, executed between 1622 and 1625. Housed in the Galleria Borghese in Rome, the work depicts the climax of the story of Daphne and Phoebus in Ovid's Metamorphoses..
Apollo in the Forge of Vulcan. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Apollo in the Forge of Vulcan (Spanish: Apolo en la Fragua de Vulcano) is an oil painting by Diego de Velázquez completed after his first visit to Italy in 1629. Critics agree that the work should be dated to 1630, the same year as his companion painting "Joseph's Tunic". It appears that neither of the two paintings were commissioned by the king, although both became part of the royal collections within a short time. The painting became part of the collection of the Museo del Prado, in Madrid, in 1819.. Apollo in the Forge of Vulcan (Spanish: Apolo en la Fragua de Vulcano) is an oil painting by Diego de Velázquez completed after his first visit to Italy in 1629. Critics agree that the work should be dated to 1630, the same year as his companion painting "Joseph's Tunic". It appears that neither of the two paintings were commissioned by the king, although both became part of the royal collections within a short time. The painting became part of the collection of the Museo del Prado, in Madrid, in 1819..
Apparatus and Hand. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Apparatus and Hand is a 1927 painting by Salvador Dalí.The painting currently resides at the Salvador Dalí Museum in St. Petersburg, Florida. This work is on loan from the collection of Mr. and Mrs. A Reynolds Morse.. Apparatus and Hand is a 1927 painting by Salvador Dalí. The painting currently resides at the Salvador Dalí Museum in St. Petersburg, Florida. This work is on loan from the collection of Mr. and Mrs. A Reynolds Morse..
Apparition of the Virgin to St Bernard. Author Name: Filippino Lippi. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Apparition of the Virgin to St. Bernard is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Filippino Lippi, dated 1480. It is housed in the Badia Fiorentina, a church in Florence.The picture was commissioned for the chapel of Francesco del Pugliese by the latter's son Piero, who is portrayed in the lower right corner in the traditional praying posture of the donor.A scroll on a rock contains a verse by the 3rd century AD stoic writer Epictetus: Sustine et abstine ("Carry on and abstain"), a hint to Bernard's teachings.. Apparition of the Virgin to St. Bernard is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Filippino Lippi, dated 1480. It is housed in the Badia Fiorentina, a church in Florence. The picture was commissioned for the chapel of Francesco del Pugliese by the latter's son Piero, who is portrayed in the lower right corner in the traditional praying posture of the donor. It is one of the most admired Lippi's works, due to its powerful, Flemish-inspired chromatism and attention to details, which contribute in turning the mystical apparition of the Virgin to St. Bernard into an everyday life scene. The composition is set in a rocky landscape in which the saint, while writing on his lectern, is suddenly visited by the Virgin. Behind Bernard's shoulders is depicted the demon biting his chains: this is a reference to a medieval hymn celebrating the Virgin as the liberator of humanity from the chains of their sins. A scroll on a rock contains a verse by the 3rd century AD stoic writer Epictetus: Sustine et abstine ("Carry on and abstain"), a hint to Bernard's teachings. Some scholars have identified in the faces of the Virgin and the angels on the left the portraits of the committent's wife and sons.
Abre Serpents. Author Name: Niki de Saint Phalle. . . Arbre Serpents is a sculpture by Niki de Saint Phalle.It showed at the Missouri Botanical Garden.It is part of the National Museum of Women in the Arts, New York Avenue Sculpture Project.. Arbre Serpents is a sculpture by Niki de Saint Phalle. It showed at the Missouri Botanical Garden. It is part of the National Museum of Women in the Arts, New York Avenue Sculpture Project..
Arii Matamoe. Author Name: Paul Gauguin. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Arii Matamoe, also titled The Royal End (French: La Fin royale) is a painting on coarse cloth by the French artist Paul Gauguin, created in 1892 during the painter's first visit to Tahiti. It depicts a man's severed head on a pillow, displayed before mourners, and although it did not depict a common or contemporary Tahitian mourning ritual, may have been inspired by the death of Pōmare V in 1891 shortly after Gauguin's arrival. A curator for the J. Paul Getty Museum suggested Gauguin likely painted the canvas "to shock Parisians" upon his expected return to the city.. Arii Matamoe, also titled The Royal End (French: La Fin royale) is a painting on coarse cloth by the French artist Paul Gauguin, created in 1892 during the painter's first visit to Tahiti. It depicts a man's severed head on a pillow, displayed before mourners, and although it did not depict a common or contemporary Tahitian mourning ritual, may have been inspired by the death of Pōmare V in 1891 shortly after Gauguin's arrival. A curator for the J. Paul Getty Museum suggested Gauguin likely painted the canvas "to shock Parisians" upon his expected return to the city..
Aristotle with a Bust of Homer. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Aristotle with a Bust of Homer, also known as Aristotle Contemplating a Bust of Homer, is an oil-on-canvas painting by Rembrandt.It was painted in 1653, as a commission from Don Antonio Ruffo, from Messina in Sicily, who did not request a particular subject.The interpretation of methodical science deferring to art is discussed at length in in which Held notes that Aristotle's right hand, traditionally the favored hand, is on the bust of Homer, is higher, and painted lighter than the left hand on the gold chain given to him by Alexander.. Aristotle with a Bust of Homer, also known as Aristotle Contemplating a Bust of Homer, is an oil-on-canvas painting by Rembrandt. It was painted in 1653, as a commission from Don Antonio Ruffo, from Messina in Sicily, who did not request a particular subject. Aristotle, world-weary, looks at the bust of blind, humble Homer, on which he rests one of his hands. This has variously been interpreted as the man of sound, methodical science deferring to Art, or as the wealthy and famous philosopher, wearing the jeweled belt given to him by Alexander the Great, envying the life of the poor blind bard. It has also been suggested that this is Rembrandt's commentary on the power of portraiture. The interpretation of methodical science deferring to art is discussed at length in in which Held notes that Aristotle's right hand, traditionally the favored hand, is on the bust of Homer, is higher, and painted lighter than the left hand on the gold chain given to him by Alexander. The exact subject being portrayed in this portrait has been challenged in the book by Simon Schama titled Rembrandt's Eyes, applying the scholarship of Paul Crenshaw. Schama presents a substantial argument that it was the famous ancient Greek painter Apelles who is depicted in contemplation by Rembrandt and not Aristotle. It was purchased in 1961 for $2.3 million by the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City, USA. At the time this was the highest amount ever paid for any picture at public or private sale. During the renovation of the Rembrandt wing of the Metropolitan Museum, the painting was retitled in November 2013 as Aristotle with a Bust of Homer. The painting forms the central theme of Joseph Heller's 1988 novel Picture This..
Artist's Studio Look Mickey. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Artist's Studio—Look Mickey (sometimes Artist's Studio, Look Mickey, Artist's Studio – Look Mickey or Artist's Studio No. 1 (Look Mickey)) is a 1973 painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It is one of five large-scale studio interior paintings in a series. The series is either referred to as the Artist's Studio series or more colloquially as the Studios and sometimes is described as excluding the other 1973 painting, reducing the series to four.. Artist's Studio—Look Mickey (sometimes Artist's Studio, Look Mickey, Artist's Studio – Look Mickey or Artist's Studio No. 1 (Look Mickey)) is a 1973 painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It is one of five large-scale studio interior paintings in a series. The series is either referred to as the Artist's Studio series or more colloquially as the Studios and sometimes is described as excluding the other 1973 painting, reducing the series to four. The series refers to a set of works by Henri Matisse, with this work specifically referring to L'Atelier Rouge. The work incorporates several other Lichtenstein's works and gets its name from the large portion of Lichtenstein's Look Mickey that is included. Lichtenstein used a much more realistic representation of his own works than is standard for most artists. Elements of the work also refer to works from both Fernand Léger and Matisse..
Ascent of the Blessed. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . Ascent of the Blessed is a Hieronymus Bosch painting made after 1490. It is in the Palazzo Ducale, in Venice, Italy.This painting is part of a polyptych of four panels entitled Visions of the Hereafter. The others are Terrestrial Paradise, Fall of the Damned and Hell.. Ascent of the Blessed is a Hieronymus Bosch painting made after 1490. It is in the Palazzo Ducale, in Venice, Italy. This painting is part of a polyptych of four panels entitled Visions of the Hereafter. The others are Terrestrial Paradise, Fall of the Damned and Hell. Near-death experience researcher Sam Parnia wrote that the painting resembles imagery typically associated with an NDE, in particular angels escorting people down a tunnel of white light. He had a subject in particular write to him specifically referencing the painting, saying that it very much resembled what he saw during his NDE. It is unknown if Bosch himself ever experienced an NDE or had someone relate to him such an experience..
Ashurbanipal. Author Name: Parhad, Fred. . . Ashurbanipal, also known as the Ashurbanipal Monument or the Statue of Ashurbanipal, is a bronze sculpture by Fred Parhad, an artist of Assyrian descent. It is located in the Civic Center of San Francisco, California, in the United States. The 15-foot (4.6 m) statue depicting the Assyrian king of the same name was commissioned by the Assyrian Foundation for the Arts and presented to the City of San Francisco in 1988 as a gift from the Assyrian people. The sculpture reportedly cost $100,000 and was the first "sizable" bronze statue of Ashurbanipal. It is administered by the City and County of San Francisco and the San Francisco Arts Commission.. Ashurbanipal, also known as the Ashurbanipal Monument or the Statue of Ashurbanipal, is a bronze sculpture by Fred Parhad, an artist of Assyrian descent. It is located in the Civic Center of San Francisco, California, in the United States. The 15-foot (4.6 m) statue depicting the Assyrian king of the same name was commissioned by the Assyrian Foundation for the Arts and presented to the City of San Francisco in 1988 as a gift from the Assyrian people. The sculpture reportedly cost $100,000 and was the first "sizable" bronze statue of Ashurbanipal. It is administered by the City and County of San Francisco and the San Francisco Arts Commission. Parhad's work was met with some criticism by local Assyrians, who argued it was inaccurate to portray Ashurbanipal holding a book and a lion, or wearing a skirt. The critics thought the statue looked more like the Sumerian king Gilgamesh; Renee Kovacs, a "scholar and self-stated Assyriologist", believed the sculpture depicted neither figure, but rather a Mesopotamian "protective figure". Parhad defended the accuracy of his work, while also admitting that he took artistic liberties..
Assumption of the Virgin. Author Name: Annibale Carracci. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Two paintings by the Italian Baroque painter Annibale Carracci take as their subject the Assumption of the Virgin Mary.. Two paintings by the Italian Baroque painter Annibale Carracci take as their subject the Assumption of the Virgin Mary..
Au Vélodrome. Author Name: Jean Metzinger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Au Vélodrome, also known as At the Cycle-Race Track and Le cycliste, is a painting by the French artist and theorist Jean Metzinger. The work illustrates the final meters of the Paris–Roubaix race, and portrays its 1912 winner Charles Crupelandt. Metzinger's painting is the first in Modernist art to represent a specific sporting event and its champion.From 9 June to 16 September 2012 the painting was the subject of an exhibition in Venice entitled Cycling, Cubo‐Futurism and the 4th Dimension. Jean Metzinger’s "At the Cycle‐Race Track".. Au Vélodrome, also known as At the Cycle-Race Track and Le cycliste, is a painting by the French artist and theorist Jean Metzinger. The work illustrates the final meters of the Paris–Roubaix race, and portrays its 1912 winner Charles Crupelandt. Metzinger's painting is the first in Modernist art to represent a specific sporting event and its champion. Au Vélodrome remained in Metzinger's atelier until it was shipped to New York, where it was shown to the public for the first time, 8 March to 3 April, at the Third Exhibition of Contemporary French Art, Carstairs (Carroll) Gallery—with works by Pach, Gleizes, Picasso, de la Fresnaye, Van Gogh, Gauguin, Derain, Duchamp, Duchamp-Villon and Villon. On 10 February 1916 the American collector John Quinn acquired Au Vélodrome and the Racing Cyclist. Both works by Metzinger had been on view in the Carroll Galleries exhibition. The acquisition was preceded by a lively correspondence between Quinn, the gallery manager Harriet Bryant, and the artist's brother Maurice Metzinger. In 1927 an exhibition and sale of Quinn's art collection took place in New York City. The sale was conducted by Otto Bernet and Hiram H. Parke at the American Art Galleries. A catalogue was published for the occasion by the American Art Association. Au Vélodrome (n. 266 of the catalogue) was purchased at the sale for $70 by American art dealer and publisher J. B. Neumann. Peggy Guggenheim purchased the painting from Neumann in 1945 and forms part of the permanent collection of her museum in Venice; Peggy Guggenheim Collection. From 9 June to 16 September 2012 the painting was the subject of an exhibition in Venice entitled Cycling, Cubo‐Futurism and the 4th Dimension. Jean Metzinger’s "At the Cycle‐Race Track"..
Automat. Author Name: Edward Hopper. . . Automat is a (1927) painting by the American realist painter Edward Hopper. The painting was first displayed on Valentine’s Day 1927 at the opening of Hopper’s second solo show, at the Rehn Galleries in New York. By April it had been sold for $1,200. The painting is today owned by the Des Moines Art Center in Iowa.. Automat is a (1927) painting by the American realist painter Edward Hopper. The painting was first displayed on Valentine’s Day 1927 at the opening of Hopper’s second solo show, at the Rehn Galleries in New York. By April it had been sold for $1,200. The painting is today owned by the Des Moines Art Center in Iowa..
Bailed Up. Author Name: Tom Roberts. . . Bailed Up is a 1895 painting by Australian artist Tom Roberts. The painting depicts a stage coach being held up by bushrangers in an isolated, forested section of a back road. The painting is part of the collection of the Art Gallery of New South Wales. and has been described by the former Senior Curator as "the greatest Australian landscape ever painted".. Bailed Up is a 1895 painting by Australian artist Tom Roberts. The painting depicts a stage coach being held up by bushrangers in an isolated, forested section of a back road. The painting is part of the collection of the Art Gallery of New South Wales. and has been described by the former Senior Curator as "the greatest Australian landscape ever painted"..
Bathsheba at Her Bath. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Bathsheba at Her Bath (or Bathsheba with King David's Letter) is an oil painting by the Dutch artist Rembrandt (1606–1669) finished in 1654.A depiction that is both sensual and empathetic, it shows a moment from the Old Testament story in which King David sees Bathsheba bathing and, entranced, seduces and impregnates her. In order to marry Bathsheba and conceal his sin, David sends her husband into battle and orders his generals to abandon him, leaving him to certain death.. Bathsheba at Her Bath (or Bathsheba with King David's Letter) is an oil painting by the Dutch artist Rembrandt (1606–1669) finished in 1654. A depiction that is both sensual and empathetic, it shows a moment from the Old Testament story in which King David sees Bathsheba bathing and, entranced, seduces and impregnates her. In order to marry Bathsheba and conceal his sin, David sends her husband into battle and orders his generals to abandon him, leaving him to certain death. While the scene of David spying on Bathsheba had been painted by earlier artists, Rembrandt's depiction differs in its tight pictorial focus and erotic vitality, achieved through broad, thick brushstrokes and vibrant coloration. The painting hangs in The Louvre; it is one of 583 works donated by Dr. Louis La Caze in 1869. For Kenneth Clark, the canvas is "Rembrandt's greatest painting of the nude". Its insight into Bathsheba's moral dilemma has been described as "one of the great achievements of western painting.".
Beacon of Hope. Author Name: Scott, Andy. . . The Thanksgiving Statue is a £300,000 public art metal sculpture by Andy Scott 19.5 metres high constructed in 2007 in Thanksgiving Square in Belfast. As with other public works of art in Ireland the sculpture has been given several nicknames. These include the Beacon of Hope, Nuala with the Hula (credited to Gerard Doyle), the Belle on the Ball and the Thing with the Ring.It is currently the second largest public art sculpture in Belfast, after Rise on Broadway Roundabout.. The Thanksgiving Statue is a £300,000 public art metal sculpture by Andy Scott 19.5 metres high constructed in 2007 in Thanksgiving Square in Belfast. As with other public works of art in Ireland the sculpture has been given several nicknames. These include the Beacon of Hope, Nuala with the Hula (credited to Gerard Doyle), the Belle on the Ball and the Thing with the Ring. It is currently the second largest public art sculpture in Belfast, after Rise on Broadway Roundabout..
Belisarius Begging for Alms. Author Name: Jacques-Louis David. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . Belisarius Begging for Alms (French: Bélisaire demandant l'aumône) is a large-format (288 × 312 cm) history painting in oil on canvas by Jacques-Louis David. It depicts the Byzantine general Belisarius, who heroically defeated the Vandals in North Africa in AD 533–534 on behalf of Justinian I, and (according to an apocryphal account probably added to his biography in the Middle Ages) was later blinded by the emperor and reduced to begging for alms on the street. David exhibited the work at the Salon of 1781 after returning from Italy and it proved a great success.. Belisarius Begging for Alms (French: Bélisaire demandant l'aumône) is a large-format (288 × 312 cm) history painting in oil on canvas by Jacques-Louis David. It depicts the Byzantine general Belisarius, who heroically defeated the Vandals in North Africa in AD 533–534 on behalf of Justinian I, and (according to an apocryphal account probably added to his biography in the Middle Ages) was later blinded by the emperor and reduced to begging for alms on the street. David exhibited the work at the Salon of 1781 after returning from Italy and it proved a great success. It is now on show at the Palais des Beaux-Arts in Lille..
Bellerophon Taming Pegasus. Author Name: Jacques Lipchitz. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Bellerophon Taming Pegasus is an outdoor sculpture depicting Bellerophon and Pegasus by Jacques Lipchitz, located on the Columbia University campus in Manhattan, New York. Installed above the west entrance of Jerome Greene Hall on Revson Plaza, the 23-ton sculpture measures approximately 30 feet (9.1 m) by 28 feet (8.5 m), making it one of the largest in the city. It was commissioned in 1966 and was dedicated on November 28, 1977.. Bellerophon Taming Pegasus is an outdoor sculpture depicting Bellerophon and Pegasus by Jacques Lipchitz, located on the Columbia University campus in Manhattan, New York. Installed above the west entrance of Jerome Greene Hall on Revson Plaza, the 23-ton sculpture measures approximately 30 feet (9.1 m) by 28 feet (8.5 m), making it one of the largest in the city. It was commissioned in 1966 and was dedicated on November 28, 1977..
The Benois Madonna. Author Name: Leonardo da Vinci. . . Madonna and Child with Flowers, otherwise known as the Benois Madonna, could be one of two Madonnas Leonardo da Vinci had commented on having started in October 1478. The other one could be Madonna of the Carnation from Munich.The composition of Madonna and Child with Flowers proved to be one of Leonardo's most popular. It was extensively copied by young painters, including Raphael, whose own version of Leonardo's design (the Madonna of the Pinks) was acquired in 2004 by the National Gallery, London.Since 1914 the painting has been exhibited in the Hermitage Museum in Saint Petersburg.. Madonna and Child with Flowers, otherwise known as the Benois Madonna, could be one of two Madonnas Leonardo da Vinci had commented on having started in October 1478. The other one could be Madonna of the Carnation from Munich. It is likely that the Benois Madonna was the first work painted by Leonardo independently from his master Verrocchio. There are two of Leonardo's preliminary sketches for this piece in the British Museum. Studies of these sketches and the painting itself suggest that Leonardo was concentrating on the idea of sight. At that time it was thought that human eyes exhibited rays to cause vision with a central beam being the most important. The child is thought to be guiding his mother's hands into his central vision. The composition of Madonna and Child with Flowers proved to be one of Leonardo's most popular. It was extensively copied by young painters, including Raphael, whose own version of Leonardo's design (the Madonna of the Pinks) was acquired in 2004 by the National Gallery, London. For centuries, Madonna and Child with Flowers was considered lost. In 1909, the architect Leon Benois sensationally exhibited it in Saint Petersburg as part of his father-in-law's collection. The painting had been apparently brought from Italy to Russia by the notable connoisseur Aleksey Korsakov in the 1790s. Upon Korsakov's death, it was sold by his son to the Astrakhan merchant Sapozhnikov for 1400 roubles and so passed by inheritance to the Benois family in 1880. After many a squabble regarding attribution, Leon Benois sold the painting to the Imperial Hermitage Museum in 1914. The purchase was made by Ernst Friedrich von Liphart who was the curator of paintings who had correctly identified the artist. (Ernst's father Karl was an expert on da Vinci). Since 1914 the painting has been exhibited in the Hermitage Museum in Saint Petersburg..
Big Electric Chair. Author Name: Andy Warhol. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Created in 1967, the Stockholm Big Electric Chair is part of a series of works by Andy Warhol depicting an electric chair. Death by electrocution was a controversial subject in New York, where the artist lived and worked, especially after the last two executions at Sing Sing Correctional Facility in 1963. Warhol obtained a photograph of the empty execution chamber, which became the basis for this series.. Created in 1967, the Stockholm Big Electric Chair is part of a series of works by Andy Warhol depicting an electric chair. Death by electrocution was a controversial subject in New York, where the artist lived and worked, especially after the last two executions at Sing Sing Correctional Facility in 1963. Warhol obtained a photograph of the empty execution chamber, which became the basis for this series..
Bleu Horses. Author Name: Dolan, Jim. . . The Bleu Horses is a set of 39 horse sculptures made primarily of steel and permanently installed on a hillside off Highway 287 just north of Three Forks, Montana. The name of the installation is taken from a color of horse known as a blue roan, though the live animal color is actually closer to gray. The horse sculptures were created and set up by artist Jim Dolan of Belgrade, Montana, who previously had created other complex outdoor sculptures over the past 30 years, including a herd of elk placed upon the lawn of a bank in Bozeman, and a fly fisherman sculpture in Ennis. He also donated four of his sculptures at Montana State University (MSU), and installed a flock of geese in the terminal of Bozeman Yellowstone International Airport.. The Bleu Horses is a set of 39 horse sculptures made primarily of steel and permanently installed on a hillside off Highway 287 just north of Three Forks, Montana. The name of the installation is taken from a color of horse known as a blue roan, though the live animal color is actually closer to gray. The horse sculptures were created and set up by artist Jim Dolan of Belgrade, Montana, who previously had created other complex outdoor sculptures over the past 30 years, including a herd of elk placed upon the lawn of a bank in Bozeman, and a fly fisherman sculpture in Ennis. He also donated four of his sculptures at Montana State University (MSU), and installed a flock of geese in the terminal of Bozeman Yellowstone International Airport..
Blind Man's Bluff. Author Name: Jean-Honoré Fragonard. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Rococo. . Blind Man's Bluff (French: Le collin maillard) is a painting by the French Rococo painter Jean-Honoré Fragonard, produced around 1769 in oil on canvas. It is full of deceptions – the girl is looking out from under her blindfold and the game seems to be a pretext leading to seduction; the two figures are in pastoral costume, but may be noble or bourgeois figures playing at being pastoral figures; the background seems to be a wood but could be a stage set. In short, it seems to abolish the boundary between truth and lies, reality and fiction.. Blind Man's Bluff (French: Le collin maillard) is a painting by the French Rococo painter Jean-Honoré Fragonard, produced around 1769 in oil on canvas. It is full of deceptions – the girl is looking out from under her blindfold and the game seems to be a pretext leading to seduction; the two figures are in pastoral costume, but may be noble or bourgeois figures playing at being pastoral figures; the background seems to be a wood but could be a stage set. In short, it seems to abolish the boundary between truth and lies, reality and fiction. The Toledo Museum of Art describes the work "Playfully erotic and sensuously painted, Jean-Honoré Fragonard's scene of youthful flirtation fulfils the eighteenth-century aristocratic French taste for romantic pastoral themes. The figures are beautifully dressed in rustic but improbably clean and fashionable clothes; the woman's shoes even have elegant bows on them." The painting was intended to accompany The See-Saw (1750) , currently, held by the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum, in Madrid. Both are painted in the style and spirit of Fragonard's master François Boucher. Boucher's training can be seen in the ornamental flourishes of flowers and trees. But Fragonard's own skill may be seen in the brilliant composition. Blindman's bluff can be seen as a metaphor for courtship, while the rocking of the see-saw would clearly be a metaphor for the act of lovemaking itself. Another painting of the same name was completed by Fragonard, after the artist’s second journey to Italy in 1773–74, between about 1775 and 1780. In this more expansive version well-dressed men, women and children play the familiar game in a picturesque overgrown garden. Fragonard’s favorite subject, he may have viewed the games as symbolizing the game of courtship. The painting is held by the Timken Museum of Art, in San Diego, California. According to eighteenth-century engravings of the two paintings, both may have originally been as much as a foot higher at the top. Blind Man's Bluff was purchased by the Toledo Museum of Art with funds from the Libbey Endowment, a gift of the glass manufacturer Edward Libbey who founded the museum in 1901..
Blue and Green Music. Author Name: Georgia O'Keeffe. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/American_modernism. . Blue and Green Music is a 1919 - 1921 painting by the American painter Georgia O'Keeffe.Painted in her New York years upon the idea that music could be translated into something for the eye, Blue and Green Music is a work of rhythm, movement, color, depth, and form. It is also one of the paintings that was expressed by her feelings.. Blue and Green Music is a 1919 - 1921 painting by the American painter Georgia O'Keeffe. Painted in her New York years upon the idea that music could be translated into something for the eye, Blue and Green Music is a work of rhythm, movement, color, depth, and form. It is also one of the paintings that was expressed by her feelings..
Bocca Baciata. Author Name: Dante Gabriel Rossetti. . . Bocca Baciata (1859) is a painting by Dante Gabriel Rossetti which represents a turning point in his career. It was the first of his pictures of single female figures, and established the style that was later to become a signature of his work. The model was Fanny Cornforth, the principal inspiration for Rossetti's sensuous figures.The title, meaning "mouth that has been kissed", refers to the sexual experience of the subject and is taken from the Italian proverb written on the back of the painting:. Bocca Baciata (1859) is a painting by Dante Gabriel Rossetti which represents a turning point in his career. It was the first of his pictures of single female figures, and established the style that was later to become a signature of his work. The model was Fanny Cornforth, the principal inspiration for Rossetti's sensuous figures. The title, meaning "mouth that has been kissed", refers to the sexual experience of the subject and is taken from the Italian proverb written on the back of the painting: Rossetti, an accomplished translator of early Italian literature, probably knew the proverb from Boccaccio’s Decameron where it is used as the culmination of the tale of Alatiel: a beautiful Saracen princess who, despite having had sex on perhaps ten thousand occasions with eight separate lovers in the space of four years, successfully presents herself to the King of the Algarve as his virgin bride. Rossetti explained in a letter to William Bell Scott that he was attempting to paint flesh more fully, and to "avoid what I know to be a besetting fault of mine - & indeed rather common to PR painting - that of stipple in the flesh...Even among the old good painters, their portraits and simpler pictures are almost always their masterpieces for colour and execution; and I fancy if one kept this in view, one might have a better chance of learning to paint at last." The painting may have been influenced by Millais' portrait of his sister-in-law Sophie Gray, completed two years earlier..
Bonaparte visitant les pestiférés de Jaffa. Author Name: Antoine-Jean Gros. . . Bonaparte Visits the Plague Stricken in Jaffa (French: Bonaparte visitant les pestiférés de Jaffa) is an 1804 painting commissioned by Napoleon Bonaparte from Antoine-Jean Gros to portray an event during the Egyptian Campaign. The scene shows Napoleon during a striking scene which occurred in Jaffa on 11 March 1799, when then General Bonaparte made a daring and spectacular visit to his sick soldiers. It was an attempt to quell unsavory rumours after Napoleon ordered that fifty incurable dying plague victims in Jaffa be poisoned (without complete success) during his retreat from his Syrian expedition.. Bonaparte Visits the Plague Stricken in Jaffa (French: Bonaparte visitant les pestiférés de Jaffa) is an 1804 painting commissioned by Napoleon Bonaparte from Antoine-Jean Gros to portray an event during the Egyptian Campaign. The scene shows Napoleon during a striking scene which occurred in Jaffa on 11 March 1799, when then General Bonaparte made a daring and spectacular visit to his sick soldiers. It was an attempt to quell unsavory rumours after Napoleon ordered that fifty incurable dying plague victims in Jaffa be poisoned (without complete success) during his retreat from his Syrian expedition. This is part of the collection of French paintings at the Louvre..
Boulevard des Capucines. Author Name: Claude Monet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Boulevard des Capucines is an oil on canvas street scene painting of Boulevard des Capucines by French Impressionist artist Claude Monet created in 1873.From the late 1860s, Monet and other like-minded artists, met with rejection from the conservative Académie des Beaux-Arts which held its annual exhibition at the Salon de Paris. During the latter part of 1873, Monet, Renoir, Pissarro, and Sisley organized the Société anonyme des artistes peintres, sculpteurs et graveurs to exhibit their artworks independently. At their first exhibition, held in April 1874, Monet exhibited the work that was to give the group its lasting name, Impression, Sunrise. Among the works Monet included in the first Impressionist exhibition was The Luncheon, 1868, which features Camille Doncieux and Jean Monet. The . Boulevard des Capucines is an oil on canvas street scene painting of Boulevard des Capucines by French Impressionist artist Claude Monet created in 1873. From the late 1860s, Monet and other like-minded artists, met with rejection from the conservative Académie des Beaux-Arts which held its annual exhibition at the Salon de Paris. During the latter part of 1873, Monet, Renoir, Pissarro, and Sisley organized the Société anonyme des artistes peintres, sculpteurs et graveurs to exhibit their artworks independently. At their first exhibition, held in April 1874, Monet exhibited the work that was to give the group its lasting name, Impression, Sunrise. Among the works Monet included in the first Impressionist exhibition was The Luncheon, 1868, which features Camille Doncieux and Jean Monet. The painting was rejected by the Paris Salon of 1870. Also in this exhibition was a painting titled Boulevard des Capucines, a painting of the boulevard done from the photographer Nadar's apartment at no. 35. Monet painted the subject twice and it is uncertain which of the two pictures, that now in the Pushkin Museum in Moscow, or that in the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art in Kansas City (shown here) was the painting that appeared in the groundbreaking 1874 exhibition, though more recently the Moscow picture has been favoured..
Boy Carrying a Sword. Author Name: Édouard Manet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Boy Carrying a Sword is an 1861 oil painting by the French artist Édouard Manet and is now displayed at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. The work depicts a small boy costumed as a page of the Spanish court of the seventeenth century; he is holding a full-sized sword and sword belt. The work was later reproduced as an engraving under the direction of Dijon painter and etcher Alphonse Legros who collaborated in the work.The artist's model was Leon Leenhoff, the stepson of the artist after his marriage to Suzanne in 1862.. Boy Carrying a Sword is an 1861 oil painting by the French artist Édouard Manet and is now displayed at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. The work depicts a small boy costumed as a page of the Spanish court of the seventeenth century; he is holding a full-sized sword and sword belt. The work was later reproduced as an engraving under the direction of Dijon painter and etcher Alphonse Legros who collaborated in the work. According to Émile Zola, the work is typical of the influence of Spanish painters and shows the strong influence Diego Velázquez and Frans Hals had on Manet at the time. The artist's model was Leon Leenhoff, the stepson of the artist after his marriage to Suzanne in 1862..
Breezing Up. Author Name: Winslow Homer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Breezing Up (A Fair Wind) is an oil painting by American artist Winslow Homer. It depicts a catboat called the Gloucester chopping through that city's harbor under "a fair wind" (Homer's original title). Inside the boat are a man, three boys, and their catch.Today, Breezing Up is considered an iconic American painting, and among Homer's finest. The National Gallery of Art purchased the work in 1943, described by the institution's web site as "one of the best-known and most beloved artistic images of life in nineteenth-century America.". Breezing Up (A Fair Wind) is an oil painting by American artist Winslow Homer. It depicts a catboat called the Gloucester chopping through that city's harbor under "a fair wind" (Homer's original title). Inside the boat are a man, three boys, and their catch. Homer began the canvas in New York in 1873, after he had visited Gloucester, Massachusetts, where he first worked in watercolor. He used the sketches made there, of which the most closely related is Sailing the Catboat (1873), for the oil painting, which he worked on over three years. Infrared reflectography has revealed the many changes he made to the composition during this time, including the removal of a fourth boy near the mast and a second schooner in the distance. At one point the adult held both the sheet and the tiller, a position initially adapted from an oil study of 1874 titled The Flirt. The painting's message is positive; despite the choppy waves, the boaters look relaxed. The anchor that replaced the boy in the bow was understood to symbolize hope. The boy holding the tiller looks forward to the horizon, a statement of optimism about his future and that of the young United States. The finished work indicates that the significant influence of Japanese art on Western painters in the 19th century also touched Homer, particularly in the compositional balance between the left (active) and right (sparse) halves. Homer had visited France in 1866 and 1867, and the influence of marine scenes by the French painters Gustave Courbet and Claude Monet is apparent as well. Not all of Homer's sea pictures are so benevolent as Breezing Up: he portrayed waves crashing ashore as did Courbet (see for example The Wave, c. 1869). Monet's relatively early paintings Seascape: Storm (1867) and The Green Wave (1866) show boats on somewhat turbulent seas. Completed in the centennial year 1876, the painting was first exhibited at the National Academy of Design that year, then at the Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia. By 1879, it had come to be known as Breezing Up, a title that was not the artist's but one which he did not seem to object to. A contemporary critic described the painting: "It is painted in [Homer's] customary coarse and negligé style, but suggests with unmistakable force the life and motion of a breezy summer day off the coast. The fishing boat, bending to the wind, seems actually to cleave the waves. There is no truer or heartier work in the exhibition." Another wrote, "Much has already been said in praise of the easy, elastic motion of the figures of the party in the sailboat, which is scudding along through blue water under 'a fair wind.' They sway with the rolling boat, and relax or grow rigid as the light keel rises or sinks upon the waves. Every person who has been similarly situated can recall how, involuntarily, his back stiffened or his knees bent as he felt the roll of the waves beneath him." Today, Breezing Up is considered an iconic American painting, and among Homer's finest. The National Gallery of Art purchased the work in 1943, described by the institution's web site as "one of the best-known and most beloved artistic images of life in nineteenth-century America.".
Bremen Town Musicians. Author Name: Gerhard Marcks. . . Bremen Town Musicians is a public art work by artist Gerhard Marcks located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The bronze sculpture is based on the fairytale by the Brothers Grimm; it is installed on the lawn.. Bremen Town Musicians is a public art work by artist Gerhard Marcks located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The bronze sculpture is based on the fairytale by the Brothers Grimm; it is installed on the lawn..
Broek in Waterland. Author Name: Jan Toorop. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Les_XX. . Broek in Waterland is an 1889 oil painting by Dutch-Indonesian artist Jan Toorop, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It is a pointillist image of the Dutch village of Broek in Waterland at twilight.. Broek in Waterland is an 1889 oil painting by Dutch-Indonesian artist Jan Toorop, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It is a pointillist image of the Dutch village of Broek in Waterland at twilight..
Great Peacock Moth. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Butterflies is a series paintings made by Vincent van Gogh in 1889 and 1890. Van Gogh made at least four paintings of butterflies and one of a moth. The metamorphosis of the caterpillar into a butterfly was symbolic to Van Gogh of men and women's capability for transformation.. Butterflies is a series paintings made by Vincent van Gogh in 1889 and 1890. Van Gogh made at least four paintings of butterflies and one of a moth. The metamorphosis of the caterpillar into a butterfly was symbolic to Van Gogh of men and women's capability for transformation..
Cahill Expressway. Author Name: Jeffrey Smart. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Precisionism. . Cahill Expressway is a 1962 painting by the Australian artist Jeffrey Smart. The painting depicts the Cahill Expressway, a motorway in inner Sydney. It is "considered by many to be one of his finest works" and "perhaps his best-known picture". The work has been described as "startling ... for its recognisability as an Sydney scene and doubly so for its timeless quality."The fat, bald man features in many of Smart's paintings. Along with a range of other solitary figures depicted in Smart's work, he is "often interpreted as the embodiment of modern alienation.". Cahill Expressway is a 1962 painting by the Australian artist Jeffrey Smart. The painting depicts the Cahill Expressway, a motorway in inner Sydney. It is "considered by many to be one of his finest works" and "perhaps his best-known picture". The work has been described as "startling ... for its recognisability as an Sydney scene and doubly so for its timeless quality." The Woolloomooloo extension of the Cahill Expressway was opened in March 1962, the same year as Smart's painting. The painting shows a view looking into the newly constructed tunnel under the Domain with the State Library on the left and the Shakespeare Memorial just above. Smart said "The start of the compositional form of Cahill Expressway was the driveway, the sweep, the lovely shapes, the image of something [the tunnel] going underground and the city continuing above the ground. The figure is not the reason for the composition at all - he ends up there almost as an afterthought. ... I gave the fat man only one arm here, and his other sleeve is tucked neatly into his pocket, as a purely compositional thing." The fat, bald man features in many of Smart's paintings. Along with a range of other solitary figures depicted in Smart's work, he is "often interpreted as the embodiment of modern alienation." Resisting any interpretation or meaning behind the bald man's presence, Smart insisted that he was there to provide a sense of scale. As including people in his paintings could overly draw viewers' eyes, Smart attempted not to "make them too interesting; they are never beautiful or sexy" and he stated "a bald head makes a lovely volume and gives me a highlight.". Smart often mocked the idea of looking for meaning in his works: "That's what happens if you try to look too much into a picture ... You can't explain pictures." The painting appeared on the cover of an edition of Peter Carey's collection of short stories, The Fat Man in History (1974). It also inspired a 1989 collection of short stories titled Cahill Expressway with the sub-title "twenty-nine Australian writers respond to Helen Daniel's invitation: stories based on Jeffrey Smart's painting Cahill Expressway". The painting was acquired by the National Gallery of Victoria in 1963 and is part of its Australian art collection..
The Calumny of Apelles. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Calumny of Apelles is a tempera painting by Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli. Based on the description of a painting by Apelles, the work was completed in approximately 1494. It is on display in the Uffizi in Florence.. The Calumny of Apelles is a tempera painting by Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli. Based on the description of a painting by Apelles, the work was completed in approximately 1494. It is on display in the Uffizi in Florence..
Canigiani Holy Family. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Canigiani Holy Family or Canigiani Madonna is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael from 1508. It is part of the permanent collection of the Alte Pinakothek in Munich, Germany.It shows mainly Elisabeth with baby John the Baptist, Joseph and Mary with infant baby Jesus (l.t.r.). These figures of the New Testament maintain eye contact.The oil painting was bought from the painter by the Canigiani family in Florence for their Home altar.. The Canigiani Holy Family or Canigiani Madonna is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael from 1508. It is part of the permanent collection of the Alte Pinakothek in Munich, Germany. It shows mainly Elisabeth with baby John the Baptist, Joseph and Mary with infant baby Jesus (l.t.r.). These figures of the New Testament maintain eye contact. The oil painting was bought from the painter by the Canigiani family in Florence for their Home altar..
Captain George K. H. Coussmaker. Author Name: Sir Joshua Reynolds. . . Captain George K. H. Coussmaker (1782) is an oil on canvas portrait by Joshua Reynolds. Coussmaker was born in London in 1759 to Evert and Mary Coussmaker, and entered the military in 1776. He was promoted several times but never saw active service and retired in 1795. He married Catherine Southwell in 1790 and fathered two children, George and Sophia (later, the Baroness de Clifford). He died in 1801. Coussmaker sat for Reynolds 21 times and his horse 8 times between February 9 and April 16, 1782 - an exceptional number of times. Reynolds was paid 205 pounds, plus 10 guineas for the frame. The portrait remained with Coussmaker and his descendants until 1884 when it was sold to William K. Vanderbilt and bequeathed to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 1920. Museum curators describe the pict. Captain George K. H. Coussmaker (1782) is an oil on canvas portrait by Joshua Reynolds. Coussmaker was born in London in 1759 to Evert and Mary Coussmaker, and entered the military in 1776. He was promoted several times but never saw active service and retired in 1795. He married Catherine Southwell in 1790 and fathered two children, George and Sophia (later, the Baroness de Clifford). He died in 1801. Coussmaker sat for Reynolds 21 times and his horse 8 times between February 9 and April 16, 1782 - an exceptional number of times. Reynolds was paid 205 pounds, plus 10 guineas for the frame. The portrait remained with Coussmaker and his descendants until 1884 when it was sold to William K. Vanderbilt and bequeathed to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 1920. Museum curators describe the picture as "an exceptionally fine work ... The composition is complex and the whole vigorously painted.".
Carnation, Lily, Lily, Rose. Author Name: John Singer Sargent. . . Carnation, Lily, Lily, Rose is an oil-on-canvas painting made by the Anglo-American painter John Singer Sargent in 1885-6.The painting depicts two small children dressed in white, lighting softly-glowing Paper lanterns with tapers as day turns to evening, in a garden strewn with pink roses, accents of yellow carnations and tall white lilies (possibly the Japanese mountain lily, Lilium auratum) behind.The painting is dominated by green foliage, with no horizon or other horizontal line to give the painting depth. The viewer seems to be simultaneously on a level with the children, but also looking down on them from above. The two subjects, the daughters of the illustrator Frederick Barnard - a friend of Sargent's, are Dolly and Polly Barnard; Dolly, left, was aged 11 and Polly, right, 7 years. Carnation, Lily, Lily, Rose is an oil-on-canvas painting made by the Anglo-American painter John Singer Sargent in 1885-6. The painting depicts two small children dressed in white, lighting softly-glowing Paper lanterns with tapers as day turns to evening, in a garden strewn with pink roses, accents of yellow carnations and tall white lilies (possibly the Japanese mountain lily, Lilium auratum) behind.The painting is dominated by green foliage, with no horizon or other horizontal line to give the painting depth. The viewer seems to be simultaneously on a level with the children, but also looking down on them from above. The two subjects, the daughters of the illustrator Frederick Barnard - a friend of Sargent's, are Dolly and Polly Barnard; Dolly, left, was aged 11 and Polly, right, 7 years, chosen for their blonde hair (replacing Sargent's original model, Millet's 5-year-old daughter, dark-haired Katherine).The title comes from the refrain of a popular song "Ye Shepherds Tell Me" (also known as The Wreath) by Joseph Mazzinghi, a pastoral glee for a trio of male voices, which mentions Flora wearing "A wreath around her head, around her head she wore, Carnation, lily, lily, rose". Sargent's painting can be read as a botanical allegory of flower-maidens, with subtle sexual overtones of lighting a lantern (slang in French for vagina), and the taper as a symbolic paintbrush (also used to hand-pollinate flowers) used to illuminate the paper of the lantern in the same way that a painter uses a paintbrush to create an image on a canvas. The work is set in an English garden at Farnham House in Broadway in the Cotswolds, south of Stratford-upon-Avon, where Sargent spent the summer of 1885 with painter Francis Davis Millet shortly after moving to England from Paris to escape the scandal caused by his 1884 painting Portrait of Madame X.Sargent took inspiration from the lanterns that he saw hanging among trees and lilies while boating on the River Thames at Pangbourne with American artist Edwin Austin Abbey in September 1885, during which trip Sargent had injured his head on an underwater object when diving into the water.Sargent wanted to capture the exact level of light at dusk so he painted the picture en plein air - out of doors, in the Impressionist manner.Every day from September to November 1885, he painted in the very few minutes when the light was perfect, giving the picture an overall purple tint of evening.The flowers in the garden died as summer turned to autumn, and they were replaced with artificial flowers.Sargent resumed painting the following summer at the Millet new home nearby in Broadway, and finally finished the painting by the end of October 1886. In the course of working, Sargent cut down the rectangular canvas, removing approximately 2 feet (61 cm) from the left side, to leave an approximately square shape. The work received a mixed reception at the Royal Academy summer exhibition in 1887, with some criticising his "Frenchified" style. However, there was also much praise, and Sir Frederic Leighton, President of the Royal Academy, encouraged the Tate Gallery to buy the painting later that year, using money from the Chantrey Bequest. It was the first of Sargent's works to be acquired by a public museum. The painting remains part of the collection of the Tate Gallery, and is displayed at Tate Britain..
Mercedes-Benz Typ C 111 Versuchswagen, 1970. Author Name: Andy Warhol. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Cars is a series of artworks by the American artist Andy Warhol, commissioned by Mercedes-Benz in 1986.A German art dealer, Hans Meyer, commissioned the first painting, of a 300SL coupe, to celebrate the 1986 centenary of the invention of the motor car. When Mercedes-Benz saw the result, it commissioned the entire series, which was to track the evolution of its designs from the Benz Patent-Motorwagen 1885, Daimler Motor Carriage (1886), and Mercedes 35 hp (1901), to the Mercedes-Benz W125, and the Mercedes-Benz C111.. Cars is a series of artworks by the American artist Andy Warhol, commissioned by Mercedes-Benz in 1986. A German art dealer, Hans Meyer, commissioned the first painting, of a 300SL coupe, to celebrate the 1986 centenary of the invention of the motor car. When Mercedes-Benz saw the result, it commissioned the entire series, which was to track the evolution of its designs from the Benz Patent-Motorwagen 1885, Daimler Motor Carriage (1886), and Mercedes 35 hp (1901), to the Mercedes-Benz W125, and the Mercedes-Benz C111. Now part of Mercedes-Benz's corporate art collection, Cars was unfinished at the time of Warhol's death in 1987. Warhol completed 36 silkscreen prints and 13 drawings of eight Mercedes models before his death. Warhol had planned to cover 20 models in 80 pieces. The series was based on photographs of cars, and were the first non-American designed objects that Warhol had portrayed in his work. Cars has been exhibited just twice in its entirety in public: in Tübingen in 1988, and at the Albertina, Vienna from 22 January–16 May 2010. Half of the series was shown in Milton Keynes in September 2001. Cars was Warhol's second automotive art project. In 1979 Warhol was commissioned by BMW to paint a Group 4 race version of the then elite supercar BMW M1 for the fourth installment in the BMW Art Car Project. Unlike the three artists before him, Warhol declined the use of a small scale practice model, instead opting to immediately paint directly onto the full scale automobile. It was indicated that Warhol spent only a total of 23 minutes painting the entire car. Warhol's work for Mercedes Benz and his similar commissions for Perrier have been criticized as "undistinguished glitz", with critics lamenting Warhol's "passionate avarice", accusing him of crossing the line into advertisements for their subjects..
Cashmere. Author Name: John Singer Sargent. . . Cashmere (French: cachemire) is an oil on canvas painting by an American artist and the leading portrait painter John Singer Sargent. It was completed in c.1908 and is based on Realism style by use of painting genre. The dimensions of the painting is 71.1 by 109.2 centimeters and is housed in a private collection.. Cashmere (French: cachemire) is an oil on canvas painting by an American artist and the leading portrait painter John Singer Sargent. It was completed in c.1908 and is based on Realism style by use of painting genre. The dimensions of the painting is 71.1 by 109.2 centimeters and is housed in a private collection..
Cattleya Orchid and Three Hummingbirds. Author Name: Martin Johnson Heade. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Hudson_River_School. . Cattleya Orchid and Three Hummingbirds (1871) is an oil on mahogany panel picture by Martin Johnson Heade acquired by the National Gallery of Art in 1982. Inspired perhaps by the works of Charles Darwin and Frederic Edwin Church, Heade planned to produce a deluxe book in the 1860s depicting Brazilian hummingbirds in tropical settings, and, to that end, created a series of 40 small pictures called The Gems of Brazil. The project was abandoned, but Heade retained his interest in hummingbirds and continued to paint them in combination with orchids and jungle backgrounds through the 1870s. The NGA describes the work: "Lichen covers dead branches; moss drips from trees; and, a blue-gray mist veils the distant jungle. An opulent pink orchid with light-green stems and pods dominates the left fore. Cattleya Orchid and Three Hummingbirds (1871) is an oil on mahogany panel picture by Martin Johnson Heade acquired by the National Gallery of Art in 1982. Inspired perhaps by the works of Charles Darwin and Frederic Edwin Church, Heade planned to produce a deluxe book in the 1860s depicting Brazilian hummingbirds in tropical settings, and, to that end, created a series of 40 small pictures called The Gems of Brazil. The project was abandoned, but Heade retained his interest in hummingbirds and continued to paint them in combination with orchids and jungle backgrounds through the 1870s. The NGA describes the work: "Lichen covers dead branches; moss drips from trees; and, a blue-gray mist veils the distant jungle. An opulent pink orchid with light-green stems and pods dominates the left foreground." On the right, two green-and-pink Brazilian Amethysts hover about a nest while a red-tailed Sappho Comet perches nearby..
Celebration. Author Name: Tyeb Mehta. . . Celebration is a triptych painting by Tyeb Mehta. It sold at Christie's for 15 million Indian rupees (US$300,000) in 2002, the highest price a contemporary Indian piece of art has ever sold for in a public auction.. Celebration is a triptych painting by Tyeb Mehta. It sold at Christie's for 15 million Indian rupees (US$300,000) in 2002, the highest price a contemporary Indian piece of art has ever sold for in a public auction..
Chain Reaction. Author Name: Paul Conrad. . . Chain Reaction is a peace monument and public art sculpture composed of a metal framework of stainless steel and fiberglass surrounded by concrete, depicting a mushroom cloud created by a nuclear explosion. Designed by American editorial cartoonist Paul Conrad and built by Peter M. Carlson, the 5.5-ton, 8-meter (26-foot) high sculpture was installed in 1991 adjacent to the Santa Monica Civic Center in Santa Monica, California.. Chain Reaction is a peace monument and public art sculpture composed of a metal framework of stainless steel and fiberglass surrounded by concrete, depicting a mushroom cloud created by a nuclear explosion. Designed by American editorial cartoonist Paul Conrad and built by Peter M. Carlson, the 5.5-ton, 8-meter (26-foot) high sculpture was installed in 1991 adjacent to the Santa Monica Civic Center in Santa Monica, California. An inscription at the base of the sculpture reads, "This is a statement of peace. May it never become an epitaph." The theme of the sculpture reflects the subject of nuclear disarmament. UCLA professor Paul Von Blum places the sculpture in the category of late 20th and early 21st century contemporary American public political artwork in the tradition of commemorative works throughout the United States, calling the work "a powerful warning about the continuing dangers of nuclear war". Conrad first expressed interest in building the sculpture in either Beverly Hills or Santa Monica in 1988. He built the sculpture with the help of an anonymous donation of $250,000 and donated the sculpture to the city of Santa Monica after it was approved by the city. It was later revealed that the donation came from philanthropist Joan Kroc, widow of Ray Kroc, the founder of the McDonald's corporation. Joan Kroc spent millions campaigning for nuclear disarmament in the 1980s. In 2012, the sculpture became the first work of public art designated as a historic landmark in the City of Santa Monica..
Chez Tortoni. Author Name: Édouard Manet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Chez Tortoni is a painting by the French artist Édouard Manet, painted ca. 1878–1880. The oil-on-canvas painting measures 26 by 34 centimetres (10 in × 13 in). The painting hung in the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum of Boston, Massachusetts, United States, prior to being stolen in 1990.. Chez Tortoni is a painting by the French artist Édouard Manet, painted ca. 1878–1880. The oil-on-canvas painting measures 26 by 34 centimetres (10 in × 13 in). The painting hung in the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum of Boston, Massachusetts, United States, prior to being stolen in 1990..
Chichester Canal. Author Name: J. M. W. Turner. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . Chichester Canal is a painting by the English Romantic landscape painter, watercolourist and printmaker J. M. W. Turner. It was painted in 1828 and was commissioned by George Wyndham, 3rd Earl of Egremont It is currently housed in the Tate Collection.The work depicts the Chichester Canal in Sussex, southern England. The ship is probably a collier brig, as this serene scene had commercial purpose. Its brilliant colours may have been influenced by atmospheric ash from the eruption of Mount Tambora in Indonesia (see also Year Without a Summer).. Chichester Canal is a painting by the English Romantic landscape painter, watercolourist and printmaker J. M. W. Turner. It was painted in 1828 and was commissioned by George Wyndham, 3rd Earl of Egremont It is currently housed in the Tate Collection. The work depicts the Chichester Canal in Sussex, southern England. The ship is probably a collier brig, as this serene scene had commercial purpose. Its brilliant colours may have been influenced by atmospheric ash from the eruption of Mount Tambora in Indonesia (see also Year Without a Summer)..
Christ Child with a Walking Frame. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . Christ Child with a Walking Frame is a part of an altarpiece by Netherlandish artist Hieronymus Bosch, painted on the reverse of his Christ Carrying the Cross. Measuring 28 centimetres (11 inches) in diameter, it is at the Kunsthistorisches Museum (Museum of Art History), Vienna, Austria.. Christ Child with a Walking Frame is a part of an altarpiece by Netherlandish artist Hieronymus Bosch, painted on the reverse of his Christ Carrying the Cross. Measuring 28 centimetres (11 inches) in diameter, it is at the Kunsthistorisches Museum (Museum of Art History), Vienna, Austria..
Christ Falling on the Way to Calvary. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Christ Falling on the Way to Calvary, also known as Lo Spasimo or Il Spasimo di Sicilia, is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael, of c. 1514–16, now in the Museo del Prado in Madrid. It is an important work for the development of his style.. Christ Falling on the Way to Calvary, also known as Lo Spasimo or Il Spasimo di Sicilia, is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael, of c. 1514–16, now in the Museo del Prado in Madrid. It is an important work for the development of his style..
Christ and St. Thomas. Author Name: Andrea del Verrocchio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Christ and St. Thomas (1467–1483) is a bronze statue by Andrea del Verrocchio made for one of the 14 niches on the exterior walls of the Orsanmichele in Florence, Italy, where it is now replaced by a cast and the original moved inside the building, which is now a museum. It shows the episode that gave rise to the term "Doubting Thomas" which, formally known as the Incredulity of Thomas, had been frequently represented in Christian art since at least the 5th century, and used to make a variety of theological points. Thomas the Apostle doubted the resurrection of Jesus and had to feel the wounds for himself in order to be convinced (John 20:24-29). The surrounding marble niche was designed by Donatello for his St Louis of Toulouse (1413), but the statue was moved to Santa Croce when the nich. Christ and St. Thomas (1467–1483) is a bronze statue by Andrea del Verrocchio made for one of the 14 niches on the exterior walls of the Orsanmichele in Florence, Italy, where it is now replaced by a cast and the original moved inside the building, which is now a museum. It shows the episode that gave rise to the term "Doubting Thomas" which, formally known as the Incredulity of Thomas, had been frequently represented in Christian art since at least the 5th century, and used to make a variety of theological points. Thomas the Apostle doubted the resurrection of Jesus and had to feel the wounds for himself in order to be convinced (John 20:24-29). The surrounding marble niche was designed by Donatello for his St Louis of Toulouse (1413), but the statue was moved to Santa Croce when the niche was sold to the Tribunale di Mercanzia (merchant's guild), who commissioned the Verrochio work..
Christ as the Suffering Redeemer. Author Name: Andrea Mantegna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Christ as the Suffering Redeemer is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Andrea Mantegna, dated to c. 1488-1500 and housed in the Statens Museum for Kunst, Copenhagen, Denmark.[citation needed]. The Christ as the Suffering Redeemer is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Andrea Mantegna, dated to c. 1488-1500 and housed in the Statens Museum for Kunst, Copenhagen, Denmark.[citation needed].
Christ in the Desert. Author Name: Ivan Kramskoi. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Peredvizhniki. . Christ in the Desert, or Christ in the Wilderness (Russian: "Христос в пустыне") is a painting by Russian artist Ivan Kramskoi, reflecting the Fasting of Christ. Kramskoi was offered a professorship for the painting by the Russian Academy of Arts Council, but having learned that in the beginning of 1873, rejected it (he had been expelled from the Academy earlier, and chose to keep his "youthful commitment to independence from the Academy"). Subsequently it became one of the favourite paintings of Pavel Tretyakov, who bought it for his gallery in the year the painting was finished.. Christ in the Desert, or Christ in the Wilderness (Russian: "Христос в пустыне") is a painting by Russian artist Ivan Kramskoi, reflecting the Fasting of Christ. Kramskoi was offered a professorship for the painting by the Russian Academy of Arts Council, but having learned that in the beginning of 1873, rejected it (he had been expelled from the Academy earlier, and chose to keep his "youthful commitment to independence from the Academy"). Subsequently it became one of the favourite paintings of Pavel Tretyakov, who bought it for his gallery in the year the painting was finished..
Christ in the House of Martha and Mary. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Christ in the House of Martha and Mary is an oil-on-canvas painting from Spanish artist Diego Velázquez, dating to his Seville period. Housed in the National Gallery, London, United Kingdom, it was painted in 1618, shortly after he completed his apprenticeship with Pacheco. At this time, Velázquez was experimenting with the potential of the bodegones, a form of genre painting set in taverns (the meaning of bodegon) or kitchens which was frequently used to relate scenes of contemporary Spain to themes and stories from the Bible. Often they contained depictions of people working with food and drink.. Christ in the House of Martha and Mary is an oil-on-canvas painting from Spanish artist Diego Velázquez, dating to his Seville period. Housed in the National Gallery, London, United Kingdom, it was painted in 1618, shortly after he completed his apprenticeship with Pacheco. At this time, Velázquez was experimenting with the potential of the bodegones, a form of genre painting set in taverns (the meaning of bodegon) or kitchens which was frequently used to relate scenes of contemporary Spain to themes and stories from the Bible. Often they contained depictions of people working with food and drink..
Christina's World. Author Name: Andrew Wyeth. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Regionalism_(art). . Christina's World is a 1948 painting by American painter Andrew Wyeth, and one of the best-known American paintings of the middle 20th century. It depicts a woman lying on the ground in a treeless, mostly tawny field, looking up at a gray house on the horizon; a barn and various other small outbuildings are adjacent to the house.This tempera work, done in a realist style, is currently on display at the Museum of Modern Art in New York, as a part of its permanent collection.. Christina's World is a 1948 painting by American painter Andrew Wyeth, and one of the best-known American paintings of the middle 20th century. It depicts a woman lying on the ground in a treeless, mostly tawny field, looking up at a gray house on the horizon; a barn and various other small outbuildings are adjacent to the house. This tempera work, done in a realist style, is currently on display at the Museum of Modern Art in New York, as a part of its permanent collection..
Ciphers and Constellations in Love with a Woman. Author Name: Joan Miró. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . Ciphers and Constellations in Love with a Woman (Catalan: Xifrats i constellacions, en l'amor amb una dona) is a painting by Joan Miró created in 1941. The medium is gouache, watercolor, and graphite on paper, and the work's dimensions are 46 cm × 38 cm (18 in × 15 in). It is in the Art Institute of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, USA. It is one of the 23 pieces in Miró's Constellations series.The painting inspired a poem of the same title by Ruth Moon Kempher.. Ciphers and Constellations in Love with a Woman (Catalan: Xifrats i constellacions, en l'amor amb una dona) is a painting by Joan Miró created in 1941. The medium is gouache, watercolor, and graphite on paper, and the work's dimensions are 46 cm × 38 cm (18 in × 15 in). It is in the Art Institute of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, USA. It is one of the 23 pieces in Miró's Constellations series. The painting inspired a poem of the same title by Ruth Moon Kempher..
Circumcision of Jesus. Author Name: Parmigianino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . The painting by the Italian Mannerist artist Parmigianino of the common subject of the Circumcision of Jesus was made around 1523 and is now in the Detroit Institute of Arts, Michigan, United States.. The painting by the Italian Mannerist artist Parmigianino of the common subject of the Circumcision of Jesus was made around 1523 and is now in the Detroit Institute of Arts, Michigan, United States..
Cleopatra Testing Poisons on Condemned Prisoners. Author Name: Alexandre Cabanel. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Academic_art. . Cleopatra Testing Poisons on Condemned Prisoners (Cléopâtre essayant des poisons sur des condamnés à mort) is an 1887 painting by the French artist Alexandre Cabanel. It is now in the Royal Museum of Fine Arts, Antwerp. It shows Cleopatra VII sitting at a banquet observing the effects of poisons on prisoners condemned to death.Cabanel had always had a taste for historical and orientalist themes and when the painting was first seen by the Parisian public he was feted by the critics and showered with honours. Several international collectors attempted to buy the painting.. Cleopatra Testing Poisons on Condemned Prisoners (Cléopâtre essayant des poisons sur des condamnés à mort) is an 1887 painting by the French artist Alexandre Cabanel. It is now in the Royal Museum of Fine Arts, Antwerp. It shows Cleopatra VII sitting at a banquet observing the effects of poisons on prisoners condemned to death. Cabanel had always had a taste for historical and orientalist themes and when the painting was first seen by the Parisian public he was feted by the critics and showered with honours. Several international collectors attempted to buy the painting..
Cleopatra and Caesar. Author Name: Jean-Léon Gérôme. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Orientalism. . Cleopatra and Caesar (French: Cléopâtre et César), also known as Cleopatra Before Caesar, is an oil on canvas painting by the French Academic artist Jean-Léon Gérôme, completed in 1866. The work was originally commissioned by the French courtesan La Païva but she was unhappy with the finished painting and returned it to Gérôme. It was exhibited at the Salon of 1866 and the Royal Academy of Arts in 1871.The painting was held by California banker Darius Ogden Mills and remained in the Mills family art collection for over a century until it was sold to a private collector in 1990.. Cleopatra and Caesar (French: Cléopâtre et César), also known as Cleopatra Before Caesar, is an oil on canvas painting by the French Academic artist Jean-Léon Gérôme, completed in 1866. The work was originally commissioned by the French courtesan La Païva but she was unhappy with the finished painting and returned it to Gérôme. It was exhibited at the Salon of 1866 and the Royal Academy of Arts in 1871. Gérôme's painting is one of the earliest modern depictions of Cleopatra emerging from a carpet in the presence of Julius Caesar, a minor historical inaccuracy that arose out of the translation of a scene from Plutarch's Life of Caesar and the semantic change of the word "carpet" over time. The work is considered a classic example of Egyptomania and was mass-produced by Goupil, allowing it to reach a wide audience. The painting was held by California banker Darius Ogden Mills and remained in the Mills family art collection for over a century until it was sold to a private collector in 1990..
Clothespin. Author Name: Claes Oldenburg. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Clothespin is a weathering steel sculpture, by Claes Oldenburg. It is located at Centre Square, 1500 Market Street, Philadelphia. It is designed to appear as a large black clothespin.Oldenburg is noted for his attempts to democratize art, and the location of Clothespin, above SEPTA's City Hall subway station, allows thousands of viewers to view it on a daily basis. It was dedicated June 25, 1976. Made of Corten steel, Clothespin is praised by art critics for its velvety texture and weathered, warm reddish-brown color. The silvery steel "spring" part the two textured work resembles the numerals "76", apt for the United States Bicentennial year. Tying in Philadelphia's colonial heritage with its difficult present, Clothespin addresses the city's civic issues and attempts to close the gap bet. Clothespin is a weathering steel sculpture, by Claes Oldenburg. It is located at Centre Square, 1500 Market Street, Philadelphia. It is designed to appear as a large black clothespin.Oldenburg is noted for his attempts to democratize art, and the location of Clothespin, above SEPTA's City Hall subway station, allows thousands of viewers to view it on a daily basis. It was dedicated June 25, 1976. Made of Corten steel, Clothespin is praised by art critics for its velvety texture and weathered, warm reddish-brown color. The silvery steel "spring" part the two textured work resembles the numerals "76", apt for the United States Bicentennial year. Tying in Philadelphia's colonial heritage with its difficult present, Clothespin addresses the city's civic issues and attempts to close the gap between income levels within the city through its universally recognized form.The design has been likened to the "embracing couple" in Constantin Brâncuși's sculpture The Kiss in the Philadelphia Museum of Art. It was commissioned in May 1974, by developer Jack Wolgin, as part of the Philadelphia Redevelopment Authority's one percent for art program..
Columbus Breaking the Egg. Author Name: William  Hogarth. . . Columbus Breaking the Egg is a 1752 engraving by English artist William Hogarth. Issued as the subscription ticket for his treatise on art, The Analysis of Beauty, it depicts an apocryphal tale (the "Egg of Columbus") concerning Christopher Columbus's response to detractors of his discovery of the New World. Hogarth uses the story as a parallel to what he considered his own discoveries in art.. Columbus Breaking the Egg is a 1752 engraving by English artist William Hogarth. Issued as the subscription ticket for his treatise on art, The Analysis of Beauty, it depicts an apocryphal tale (the "Egg of Columbus") concerning Christopher Columbus's response to detractors of his discovery of the New World. Hogarth uses the story as a parallel to what he considered his own discoveries in art..
Consulting the Oracle. Author Name: John William Waterhouse. . . Consulting the Oracle is a painting by John William Waterhouse. Waterhouse painted it in 1884; according to Anthony Hobson, "The Illustrated London News described it as one of the principal works of the year". Hobson describes the work as having a "keyhole composition" because a partial ring of women focus upon a single other (the priestess).. Consulting the Oracle is a painting by John William Waterhouse. Waterhouse painted it in 1884; according to Anthony Hobson, "The Illustrated London News described it as one of the principal works of the year". Hobson describes the work as having a "keyhole composition" because a partial ring of women focus upon a single other (the priestess). Hobson goes on to say that the painting helps "to establish Waterhouse as a classical painter" because of his use of "classical, geometrical structures...the vertical, the horizontal and the circle". When he adds the diagonal, as "in the inclined figure of the priestess" and the out-of-place rug, it is a deliberately added tension..
The Coronation of the Virgin. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Coronation of the Virgin is a painting by Diego Velázquez of the Holy Trinity crowning the Blessed Virgin Mary, a theme in Marian art. It is now at the Museo del Prado.It was probably commissioned for the oratory of the court of Elisabeth of France, queen consort to Philip IV of Spain, in the Real Alcázar of Madrid. There it joined others on Marian religious festivities by the Naples painter Andrea Vaccaro which had been brought to Madrid by cardinal Gaspar de Borja y Velasco. The model for Mary in the work may be the same model as the artist used for the Rokeby Venus.. The Coronation of the Virgin is a painting by Diego Velázquez of the Holy Trinity crowning the Blessed Virgin Mary, a theme in Marian art. It is now at the Museo del Prado. It was probably commissioned for the oratory of the court of Elisabeth of France, queen consort to Philip IV of Spain, in the Real Alcázar of Madrid. There it joined others on Marian religious festivities by the Naples painter Andrea Vaccaro which had been brought to Madrid by cardinal Gaspar de Borja y Velasco. The model for Mary in the work may be the same model as the artist used for the Rokeby Venus..
Crucifixion With a Donor. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . Crucifixion With a Donor is a painting by Hieronymus Bosch believed to be painted between 1480 and 1485. The painting resides at Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium in Brussels.. Crucifixion With a Donor is a painting by Hieronymus Bosch believed to be painted between 1480 and 1485. The painting resides at Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium in Brussels..
Dark plum Vera Wang dress of Keira Knightley. Author Name: Vera Wang. . . The dark plum Vera Wang dress of Keira Knightley refers to the evening gown worn by British actor Keira Knightley at the 78th Academy Awards on March 5, 2006. The full-length taffeta dress was created by designer Vera Wang and had a single shoulder strap and fishtail skirt. It was accessorised with a Bulgari necklace.. The dark plum Vera Wang dress of Keira Knightley refers to the evening gown worn by British actor Keira Knightley at the 78th Academy Awards on March 5, 2006. The full-length taffeta dress was created by designer Vera Wang and had a single shoulder strap and fishtail skirt. It was accessorised with a Bulgari necklace. In a subsequent poll by British retail chain Debenhams published in The Daily Telegraph, the dress was voted the 6th greatest red carpet gown of all time.Cosmopolitan magazine also cited it as one of the Best Oscar dresses of all time, saying Knightley looked: "super-graceful in this eggplant taffeta gown custom-made by Vera Wang.".
David Garrick as Richard III. Author Name: William  Hogarth. . . David Garrick as Richard III is a painting dating from 1745 by the English artist William Hogarth.The painting shows the actor and stage manager David Garrick in the role of Richard III in Shakespeare's play Richard III. It depicts a dramatic moment in the play on the eve of the Battle of Bosworth. The king, who had been asleep in his tent on the battlefield, has just woken from a dream in which he has seen the ghosts of the opponents he had previously murdered. Hogarth was a friend of Garrick, who had gained a degree of fame through his portrayal of Richard III at the Drury Lane Theatre in London. The painting shows the actor with fear and concern, one arm raised and with a shocked expression on his face.. David Garrick as Richard III is a painting dating from 1745 by the English artist William Hogarth. The painting shows the actor and stage manager David Garrick in the role of Richard III in Shakespeare's play Richard III. It depicts a dramatic moment in the play on the eve of the Battle of Bosworth. The king, who had been asleep in his tent on the battlefield, has just woken from a dream in which he has seen the ghosts of the opponents he had previously murdered. Hogarth was a friend of Garrick, who had gained a degree of fame through his portrayal of Richard III at the Drury Lane Theatre in London. The painting shows the actor with fear and concern, one arm raised and with a shocked expression on his face. Hogarth, best remembered for his satirical prints on social themes, was also a skilled painter and portraitist. This painting, much more than just a portrait, shows the subject at a key time in history, and also in theatrical pose. It falls between the commonly accepted genres of portraiture and historical painting. The pose used by Hogarth was similar to other that used for other portraits of actors, especially those by Zoffany. Having compared Hogarth's painting with those of Garrick by Reynolds, Gill Parry concludes that Hogarth had helped to establish a new subgenre within portraiture, that of the theatrical portrait. The pose adopted by the actor was described by Hogarth as "the serpentine line"; he saw it as "being composed of two curves contrasted". In his 1753 treatise The Analysis of Beauty he suggests that this is a particularly beautiful shape which "gives play to the imagination and delights the eye". The painting is in oil on canvas and measures 190.5 centimetres (75.0 in) by 250.8 centimetres (98.7 in). It is owned by the Walker Art Gallery in Liverpool, Merseyside, England, and was purchased by the gallery in 1956 with help from the National Art Collections Fund..
Death and Fire. Author Name: Paul Klee. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Bauhaus. . Death and Fire, known in German as Tod und Feuer, is a 1940 expressionist painting by Paul Klee. It was one of the last before his death in June 29 of that year. In 1935 Klee started to suffer from scleroderma, which manifested itself with fatigue, skin rashes, difficulty in swallowing, shortness of breath and pain in the joints of his hands. Paintings during this period tended to be simpler and representative of the suffering he was going through. "Tod", the German word for death, is a common motif throughout the painting. It can be seen most distinctly in the features of the face, though the "d" and "t" are rotated. The word can also be seen in the figure's raised arm as the "T", the yellow orb as the "O", and the figure's head as the "D".. Death and Fire, known in German as Tod und Feuer, is a 1940 expressionist painting by Paul Klee. It was one of the last before his death in June 29 of that year. In 1935 Klee started to suffer from scleroderma, which manifested itself with fatigue, skin rashes, difficulty in swallowing, shortness of breath and pain in the joints of his hands. Paintings during this period tended to be simpler and representative of the suffering he was going through. "Tod", the German word for death, is a common motif throughout the painting. It can be seen most distinctly in the features of the face, though the "d" and "t" are rotated. The word can also be seen in the figure's raised arm as the "T", the yellow orb as the "O", and the figure's head as the "D". The painting also represents hieroglyphics, an interest of Klee's during this time, which can also be seen in many of his other late 1930s paintings, such as Insula dulcamara (1938) and Heroische Rosen (1938). As of 2014, it is on display at Zentrum Paul Klee, a museum in Bern, Switzerland that is dedicated to the works of Paul Klee..
Death of the Reprobate. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . Death of the Reprobate (33.4 x 19.6 cm) is an oil on panel painting by Hieronymus Bosch which depicts the deathbed struggle for the human soul between an angel and a demon. The style is somewhat similar to his Death of the Miser. It is held in a private collection in New York, United States.The painting is likely a copy of detail from a larger hell panel. It dates from the second half of the 16th century.. Death of the Reprobate (33.4 x 19.6 cm) is an oil on panel painting by Hieronymus Bosch which depicts the deathbed struggle for the human soul between an angel and a demon. The style is somewhat similar to his Death of the Miser. It is held in a private collection in New York, United States. The painting is likely a copy of detail from a larger hell panel. It dates from the second half of the 16th century..
The Declaration of Independence. Author Name: John Trumbull. . . John Trumbull's Declaration of Independence is a 12-by-18-foot (3.7 by 5.5 m) oil-on-canvas painting in the United States Capitol Rotunda that depicts the presentation of the draft of the Declaration of Independence to Congress. It was based on a much smaller version of the same scene, presently held by the Yale University Art Gallery. Trumbull painted many of the figures in the picture from life and visited Independence Hall as well to depict the chamber where the Second Continental Congress met. The oil-on-canvas work was commissioned in 1817, purchased in 1819, and placed in the rotunda in 1826.. John Trumbull's Declaration of Independence is a 12-by-18-foot (3.7 by 5.5 m) oil-on-canvas painting in the United States Capitol Rotunda that depicts the presentation of the draft of the Declaration of Independence to Congress. It was based on a much smaller version of the same scene, presently held by the Yale University Art Gallery. Trumbull painted many of the figures in the picture from life and visited Independence Hall as well to depict the chamber where the Second Continental Congress met. The oil-on-canvas work was commissioned in 1817, purchased in 1819, and placed in the rotunda in 1826. The painting is sometimes incorrectly described as the signing of the Declaration of Independence. In fact, the painting actually shows the five-man drafting committee presenting their draft of the Declaration to the Congress, an event that took place on June 28, 1776, and not the signing of the document, which took place later. The painting shows 42 of the 56 signers of the Declaration; Trumbull originally intended to include all 56 signers, but was unable to obtain likenesses for all of them. He also decided to depict several participants in the debate who did not sign the document, including John Dickinson, who declined to sign. Trumbull also had no portrait of Benjamin Harrison V to work with; son Benjamin Harrison VI was said to have resembled his father, so he was painted instead. Because the Declaration was debated and signed over a period of time when membership in Congress changed, the men in the painting had never all been in the same room at the same time. Thomas Jefferson seems to be stepping on the foot of John Adams in the painting, which many think is supposed to symbolize their relationship as political enemies. However, upon closer examination of the painting, it can be seen that their feet are merely close together. This part of the image was correctly depicted on the two-dollar bill version..
Deliverance of Saint Peter. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Liberation of Saint Peter is a fresco painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael and his assistant Giulio Romano. It was painted in 1514 as part of Raphael's commission to decorate with frescoes the rooms that are now known as the Stanze di Raffaello, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. It is located in the Stanza di Eliodoro, which is named after The Expulsion of Heliodorus from the Temple. The painting shows how Saint Peter was liberated from Herod's prison by an angel, as described in Acts 12. It is technically an overdoor, probably the most majestic ever painted.. The Liberation of Saint Peter is a fresco painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael and his assistant Giulio Romano. It was painted in 1514 as part of Raphael's commission to decorate with frescoes the rooms that are now known as the Stanze di Raffaello, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. It is located in the Stanza di Eliodoro, which is named after The Expulsion of Heliodorus from the Temple. The painting shows how Saint Peter was liberated from Herod's prison by an angel, as described in Acts 12. It is technically an overdoor, probably the most majestic ever painted. The fresco shows three scenes in symmetrical balance formed by the feigned architecture and stairs. In the centre the angel wakes Peter, and on the right guides him past the sleeping guards. On the left side one guard has apparently noticed the light generated by the angel and wakes a comrade, pointing up to the miraculously illumined cell. This adds drama to the serene exit of Peter at the right..
Delta Solar. Author Name: Alejandro Otero. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Geometric_abstraction. . Delta Solar is a public artwork by Venezuelan sculptor Alejandro Otero located outside of the National Air and Space Museum in Washington, DC, United States. Delta Solar is meant to pay homage to modern technology and the Inca sun cult.. Delta Solar is a public artwork by Venezuelan sculptor Alejandro Otero located outside of the National Air and Space Museum in Washington, DC, United States. Delta Solar is meant to pay homage to modern technology and the Inca sun cult..
Deux fillettes, fond jaune et rouge. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . Deux fillettes, fond jaune et rouge (Two Girls in a Yellow and Red Interior) (1947), oil on canvas, 61 x 49.8 cm (24 x 19 5/8 inches) is a painting by Henri Matisse in the collection of the Barnes Foundation, Merion, Pennsylvania. Albert Barnes became one of Matisse's most important patrons. In addition to a commissioned mural in 1932 Dance II, 1932 Barnes acquired many paintings and drawings by Matisse. Pierre Matisse who was Matisse's son living in New York was instrumental in facilitating Barnes in purchasing works from his father. During the early-to-mid-1940s Matisse was in poor health. Eventually by 1950 he stopped painting in favor of his paper cutouts. This painting in the Barnes collection is an example of one of the final group of oil paintings in Matisse's career.. Deux fillettes, fond jaune et rouge (Two Girls in a Yellow and Red Interior) (1947), oil on canvas, 61 x 49.8 cm (24 x 19 5/8 inches) is a painting by Henri Matisse in the collection of the Barnes Foundation, Merion, Pennsylvania. Albert Barnes became one of Matisse's most important patrons. In addition to a commissioned mural in 1932 Dance II, 1932 Barnes acquired many paintings and drawings by Matisse. Pierre Matisse who was Matisse's son living in New York was instrumental in facilitating Barnes in purchasing works from his father. During the early-to-mid-1940s Matisse was in poor health. Eventually by 1950 he stopped painting in favor of his paper cutouts. This painting in the Barnes collection is an example of one of the final group of oil paintings in Matisse's career..
Diana and Her Companions. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . Diana and Her Companions is a painting by Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer completed in the early to mid-1650s, now at the Mauritshuis museum in The Hague. Although the exact year is unknown, the work may be the earliest painting of the artist still extant, with some art historians placing it before Christ in the House of Martha and Mary, some after.. Diana and Her Companions is a painting by Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer completed in the early to mid-1650s, now at the Mauritshuis museum in The Hague. Although the exact year is unknown, the work may be the earliest painting of the artist still extant, with some art historians placing it before Christ in the House of Martha and Mary, some after. The painting's solemn mood is unusual for a scene depicting the goddess Diana, and the nymph washing the central figure's feet has captured the attention of critics and historians, both for her activity and contemporary clothing. Rather than directly illustrating one of the dramatic moments in well-known episodes from myths about Diana, the scene shows a woman and her attendants quietly at her toilette. The theme of a woman in a private, reflective moment would grow stronger in Vermeer's paintings as his career progressed. Nothing of the work's history before the mid-19th century is known, and the painting was not widely accepted as one of Vermeer's until the early 20th century, when its similarities with Mary and Martha were noticed. About one ninth of the painting's width has been removed from the right side, and it was not discovered until 1999 or 2000 was that the sky in the upper right-hand corner had been added in the 19th century..
Digital Orca. Author Name: Coupland, Douglas. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Literary_modernism. . Digital Orca is a 2009 sculpture by Douglas Coupland, located adjacent to the Vancouver Convention Centre in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. The work, part of the Vancouver Convention Centre Art Project, is commonly referred to as Lego Orca or Pixel Whale.. Digital Orca is a 2009 sculpture by Douglas Coupland, located adjacent to the Vancouver Convention Centre in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. The work, part of the Vancouver Convention Centre Art Project, is commonly referred to as Lego Orca or Pixel Whale..
Dinos of the Gorgon Painter. Author Name: Gorgon Painter. . . The Dinos of the Gorgon Painter (French: Dinos du Peintre de la Gorgone) is an important example of ancient Greek pottery, produced at Athens around 580 BC. It entered the Louvre's collection in 1861, with the purchase of Giampietro Campana's collection (Inv. E 874).This masterpiece, which is decorated with gorgons, is the source of the name the anonymous painter who decorated it and is therefore known as the Gorgon Painter.. The Dinos of the Gorgon Painter (French: Dinos du Peintre de la Gorgone) is an important example of ancient Greek pottery, produced at Athens around 580 BC. It entered the Louvre's collection in 1861, with the purchase of Giampietro Campana's collection (Inv. E 874). This masterpiece, which is decorated with gorgons, is the source of the name the anonymous painter who decorated it and is therefore known as the Gorgon Painter..
Divan Japonais. Author Name: Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Art_Nouveau. . Divan Japonais is a lithograph poster by French artist Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec. It was created to advertise a café-chantant that was at the time known as Divan Japonais. The poster depicts three persons from the Montmartre of Toulouse-Lautrec's time. Dancer Jane Avril is in the audience. Beside her is writer Édouard Dujardin. They are watching a performance by Yvette Guilbert. Though her face is not included in the poster, she is recognizable by her tall, thin frame and long black gloves.. Divan Japonais is a lithograph poster by French artist Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec. It was created to advertise a café-chantant that was at the time known as Divan Japonais. The poster depicts three persons from the Montmartre of Toulouse-Lautrec's time. Dancer Jane Avril is in the audience. Beside her is writer Édouard Dujardin. They are watching a performance by Yvette Guilbert. Though her face is not included in the poster, she is recognizable by her tall, thin frame and long black gloves..
The Dort. Author Name: J. M. W. Turner. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . The Dort, or Dort or Dordrecht: The Dort packet-boat from Rotterdam becalmed is an 1818 painting by J M W Turner, based on drawings made by him in mid September 1817. It shows a view of the harbor of Dordrecht. It is the finest example of the influence of Dutch marine painting on Turner's work.It was purchased by Walter Fawkes for 500 guineas at the request of his son, and hung in the drawing room at Farnley Hall until it was bought by Paul Mellon in 1966. It was then donated to the Yale Center for British Art upon the founding of the center.. The Dort, or Dort or Dordrecht: The Dort packet-boat from Rotterdam becalmed is an 1818 painting by J M W Turner, based on drawings made by him in mid September 1817. It shows a view of the harbor of Dordrecht. It is the finest example of the influence of Dutch marine painting on Turner's work. It was exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1818, where it was described by the Morning Chronicle as “one of the most magnificent pictures ever exhibited, and does honour to the age”. In 1832, John Constable wrote of the picture, "I remember most of Turner's early works; amongst them one of singular intricacy and beauty; it was a canal with numerous boats making thousands of beautiful shapes, and I think the most complete work of a genius I ever saw". It was purchased by Walter Fawkes for 500 guineas at the request of his son, and hung in the drawing room at Farnley Hall until it was bought by Paul Mellon in 1966. It was then donated to the Yale Center for British Art upon the founding of the center..
Dream Caused by the Flight of a Bee. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Dream Caused by the Flight of a Bee Around a Pomegranate a Second Before Awakening (1944) is a surrealist painting by Salvador Dalí. A short, alternate title for the painting is Dream Caused by the Flight of a Bee. It was painted in 1944, while Dalí and his wife, Gala, were living in America.. Dream Caused by the Flight of a Bee Around a Pomegranate a Second Before Awakening (1944) is a surrealist painting by Salvador Dalí. A short, alternate title for the painting is Dream Caused by the Flight of a Bee. It was painted in 1944, while Dalí and his wife, Gala, were living in America..
Dressing for the Carnival. Author Name: Winslow Homer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Dressing for the Carnival is an 1877 painting by the American painter, printmaker and illustrator Winslow Homer.Homer painted African Americans, completely avoiding the stereotypes with which their collective image had been flooded during the period of Reconstruction after the Civil War. The 1870s and 1880s produced innumerable images of African Americans at carnival time, mindless, jolly, condescending.. Dressing for the Carnival is an 1877 painting by the American painter, printmaker and illustrator Winslow Homer. Homer painted African Americans, completely avoiding the stereotypes with which their collective image had been flooded during the period of Reconstruction after the Civil War. The 1870s and 1880s produced innumerable images of African Americans at carnival time, mindless, jolly, condescending. But Homer's Dressing for the Carnival is unlike all of them: a deeply nuanced and, in the end, tragic scene of preparation for festivity. A group of people is preparing for the African-American festival known in the South as Jonkonnu and in the North as Pinkster. It entailed the costuming of a Harlequin-like figure or Lord of Misrule, and this Homer depicts: a man caparisoned in bright, tatterdemalion clothes, yellow, red, and blue, with a liberty cap on his head. Two women are sewing them on him. The one on the right extends her arm, pulling the long thread right through, in a gesture of compelling and somber gravity; she is a classical Fate, seen below the Mason-Dixon line. Next to her, but apart from her, gazing at the vesting ceremony with wonder, are some children, one of whom holds a Stars and Stripes (for by Reconstruction, the rituals of the Fourth of July had been overlaid on those of Jonkonnu). Homer makes us sense how far the hopes of emancipation still are from the realities of black life in the South..
Drunkenness of Noah. Author Name: Giovanni Bellini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . Drunkenness of Noah is a painting by the Italian artist Giovanni Bellini. It was Finished about 1515. it is kept in the Museum of Fine Arts and Archeology of Besançon, France.. Drunkenness of Noah is a painting by the Italian artist Giovanni Bellini. It was Finished about 1515. it is kept in the Museum of Fine Arts and Archeology of Besançon, France..
The Rhinoceros. Author Name: Albrecht Dürer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Dürer's Rhinoceros is the name commonly given to a woodcut executed by German painter and printmaker Albrecht Dürer in 1515. The image was based on a written description and brief sketch by an unknown artist of an Indian rhinoceros that had arrived in Lisbon earlier that year. Dürer never saw the actual rhinoceros, which was the first living example seen in Europe since Roman times. In late 1515, the King of Portugal, Manuel I, sent the animal as a gift for Pope Leo X, but it died in a shipwreck off the coast of Italy in early 1516. A live rhinoceros was not seen again in Europe until a second specimen, named Abada, arrived from India at the court of Sebastian of Portugal in 1577, being later inherited by Philip II of Spain around 1580.. Dürer's Rhinoceros is the name commonly given to a woodcut executed by German painter and printmaker Albrecht Dürer in 1515. The image was based on a written description and brief sketch by an unknown artist of an Indian rhinoceros that had arrived in Lisbon earlier that year. Dürer never saw the actual rhinoceros, which was the first living example seen in Europe since Roman times. In late 1515, the King of Portugal, Manuel I, sent the animal as a gift for Pope Leo X, but it died in a shipwreck off the coast of Italy in early 1516. A live rhinoceros was not seen again in Europe until a second specimen, named Abada, arrived from India at the court of Sebastian of Portugal in 1577, being later inherited by Philip II of Spain around 1580. Dürer's woodcut is not an entirely accurate representation of a rhinoceros. He depicts an animal with hard plates that cover its body like sheets of armour, with a gorget at the throat, a solid-looking breastplate, and rivets along the seams. He places a small twisted horn on its back, and gives it scaly legs and saw-like rear quarters. None of these features are present in a real rhinoceros, although the Indian rhinoceros does have deep folds in its skin that can look like armor from a distance. Despite its anatomical inaccuracies, Dürer's woodcut became very popular in Europe and was copied many times in the following three centuries. It was regarded by Westerners as a true representation of a rhinoceros into the late 18th century. Eventually, it was supplanted by more realistic drawings and paintings, particularly those of Clara the rhinoceros, who toured Europe in the 1740s and 1750s. It has been said of Dürer's woodcut: "probably no animal picture has exerted such a profound influence on the arts"..
East Wind Over Weehawken. Author Name: Edward Hopper. . . East Wind Over Weehawken is an oil painting on canvas by American realist painter Edward Hopper. It was held in the collection of the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts in the United States from 1954 until its sale to an anonymous buyer in December 2013. That sale brought a record price for a Hopper.. East Wind Over Weehawken is an oil painting on canvas by American realist painter Edward Hopper. It was held in the collection of the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts in the United States from 1954 until its sale to an anonymous buyer in December 2013. That sale brought a record price for a Hopper..
Ecce Ancilla Domini. Author Name: Dante Gabriel Rossetti. . . Ecce Ancilla Domini (Latin: "Behold the handmaiden of the Lord"), or The Annunciation, is an oil painting by the English artist Dante Gabriel Rossetti, first painted in 1850 and now in Tate Britain in London. The Latin title is a quotation from the Vulgate text of the first chapter of the Gospel of Saint Luke, describing the Annunciation, where Mary accepts the message brought to her by the Angel Gabriel that she would give birth to a child (Jesus) by God.. Ecce Ancilla Domini (Latin: "Behold the handmaiden of the Lord"), or The Annunciation, is an oil painting by the English artist Dante Gabriel Rossetti, first painted in 1850 and now in Tate Britain in London. The Latin title is a quotation from the Vulgate text of the first chapter of the Gospel of Saint Luke, describing the Annunciation, where Mary accepts the message brought to her by the Angel Gabriel that she would give birth to a child (Jesus) by God..
Edge of the Trees. Author Name: Janet Laurence. . . Edge of the Trees is a collaborative installation artwork created by artist Janet Laurence and Fiona Foley. The artwork is a site-specific piece located at the forecourt of the Museum of Sydney, Sydney since its opening in 1995. The artwork is constructed with 29 vertical pillars made from different materials such as wood, steel, and sandstone collaborating with other organic materials and sound elements. This public art installation has won several awards as it evokes the cultural and physical history of the site.. Edge of the Trees is a collaborative installation artwork created by artist Janet Laurence and Fiona Foley. The artwork is a site-specific piece located at the forecourt of the Museum of Sydney, Sydney since its opening in 1995. The artwork is constructed with 29 vertical pillars made from different materials such as wood, steel, and sandstone collaborating with other organic materials and sound elements. This public art installation has won several awards as it evokes the cultural and physical history of the site..
Eight Elvises. Author Name: Andy Warhol. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Eight Elvises is a 1963 silkscreen painting by American pop artist Andy Warhol. In 2008 it was sold for $100 million to a private buyer, making the painting the most valuable work by Andy Warhol at the time. The current owner and location of the painting, which has not been seen publicly since the 1960s, are unknown.. Eight Elvises is a 1963 silkscreen painting by American pop artist Andy Warhol. In 2008 it was sold for $100 million to a private buyer, making the painting the most valuable work by Andy Warhol at the time. The current owner and location of the painting, which has not been seen publicly since the 1960s, are unknown..
El Rio de Luz. Author Name: Frederic Edwin Church. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Hudson_River_School. . El Rio de Luz (The River of Light) (1887) is an oil on canvas landscape by Frederic Edwin Church acquired by the National Gallery of Art in 1965. According to the NGA, the work is a "fanciful pastiche" of the many sketches and drawings Church made while traveling in South America in 1857. The NGA notes that "the tightly focused realism, the overall tonal harmony and restrained coloration, and the compositional unity all lend a remarkable cohesiveness to the work." William Earl Dodge, Jr. (d. 1903) was the original owner of the work and passed it to his descendants. In 1965, it was given to the Preservation Society of Newport County, Rhode Island, and purchased in December 1965 by the National Gallery of Art. The painting was restored in 1988.. El Rio de Luz (The River of Light) (1887) is an oil on canvas landscape by Frederic Edwin Church acquired by the National Gallery of Art in 1965. According to the NGA, the work is a "fanciful pastiche" of the many sketches and drawings Church made while traveling in South America in 1857. The NGA notes that "the tightly focused realism, the overall tonal harmony and restrained coloration, and the compositional unity all lend a remarkable cohesiveness to the work." William Earl Dodge, Jr. (d. 1903) was the original owner of the work and passed it to his descendants. In 1965, it was given to the Preservation Society of Newport County, Rhode Island, and purchased in December 1965 by the National Gallery of Art. The painting was restored in 1988..
Ensueños de Amor. Author Name: Juan Luna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Ensueños de Amor, literally "Daydreams of Love", is a "dreamy" oil on wood painting by Filipino painter and hero Juan Luna. It depicts Luna's wife Maria de la Paz Pardo de Tavera while sound asleep. It is currently a part of the art collection of the Lopez Museum.Measuring 10½ inches × 12¾ inches, it is a contrapposto beneath the cover of bed sheets. The predominant color used by Luna for Ensueños de Amor is white with dashes of pink, green, and blue hues. Luna used rapid brush strokes to express the dreamy mood.. Ensueños de Amor, literally "Daydreams of Love", is a "dreamy" oil on wood painting by Filipino painter and hero Juan Luna. It depicts Luna's wife Maria de la Paz Pardo de Tavera while sound asleep. It is currently a part of the art collection of the Lopez Museum. Measuring 10½ inches × 12¾ inches, it is a contrapposto beneath the cover of bed sheets. The predominant color used by Luna for Ensueños de Amor is white with dashes of pink, green, and blue hues. Luna used rapid brush strokes to express the dreamy mood. The idealism of this painting masks a darker fact in real life, for although Luna was fond of his wife, he was unfortunately also prone to fits of violent jealousy. On September 23, 1892, after accusing her of adultery, he killed his wife and mother-in-law as well as seriously wounding his brother-in-law. Luna was charged with murder but was acquitted shortly thereafter, his deed judged as a crime of passion..
Entry of Christ into Jerusalem. Author Name: Anthony van Dyck. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Entry of Christ into Jerusalem is a 1617 oil painting by Flemish artist Anthony van Dyck, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It depicts Jesus entering Jerusalem as described in the Gospels, the event celebrated on Palm Sunday.. Entry of Christ into Jerusalem is a 1617 oil painting by Flemish artist Anthony van Dyck, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It depicts Jesus entering Jerusalem as described in the Gospels, the event celebrated on Palm Sunday..
Epifania. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Epifania (Italian - Epiphany) is a cartoon or full-scale drawing in black chalk by Michelangelo, produced in Rome around 1550–1553. It is 2.32 metres tall by 1.65 m wide, and is made up of 26 sheets of paper.. Epifania (Italian - Epiphany) is a cartoon or full-scale drawing in black chalk by Michelangelo, produced in Rome around 1550–1553. It is 2.32 metres tall by 1.65 m wide, and is made up of 26 sheets of paper. The composition shows the Virgin Mary, with the Christ child sitting between her legs. An adult male figure to the right, probably St Joseph, is pushed away by Mary. In front of him is the infant St John the Baptist. The adult figure standing to Mary's left is unidentified, as are other figures only just visible in the background. Michelangelo repeatedly changed the composition and its forms, as is apparent in the cartoon's alterations. The composition was originally thought to be of the Three Kings, which may be the reason for the title, but is now understood as referring to Christ's siblings mentioned in the Gospels (explained by Saint Epiphanias—another possible source for the title—as Joseph's sons by a previous marriage, and hence Mary's stepsons, leaving their marriage unconsummated—hence her pushing Joseph away—and Mary forever a virgin). Michelangelo's biographer Ascanio Condivi used this cartoon for an unfinished painting. A 19th-century Scottish collector, John Malcolm of Poltalloch, bought it for only £11 0s 6d. and, on John's death in 1893, his son John Wingfield Malcolm gave it to the British Museum. Parliament voted £25,000 to purchase the rest of his collection for the museum two years later. The cartoon is on display in Gallery 90 of the Museum..
Esterhazy Madonna. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Esterhazy Madonna is a 1508 painting by Raphael, held at the Museum of Fine Arts in Budapest, in Hungary. It was stolen on the night of 5 November 1983, along with other works by Raphael, Giorgione, Tintoretto and Tiepolo - all the works, including this one, were recovered by the Italian Carabinieri in an abandoned Greek convent near Aigio.. The Esterhazy Madonna is a 1508 painting by Raphael, held at the Museum of Fine Arts in Budapest, in Hungary. It was stolen on the night of 5 November 1983, along with other works by Raphael, Giorgione, Tintoretto and Tiepolo - all the works, including this one, were recovered by the Italian Carabinieri in an abandoned Greek convent near Aigio..
Every Beating Second. Author Name: Echelman, Janet. . . Every Beating Second is a sculpture designed by artist Janet Echelman. The sculpture is located in Terminal 2 of the San Francisco International Airport, which opened in April 2011.. Every Beating Second is a sculpture designed by artist Janet Echelman. The sculpture is located in Terminal 2 of the San Francisco International Airport, which opened in April 2011..
Ex-Voto de 1662. Author Name: Philippe de Champaigne. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Ex-Voto de 1662 is a painting by the French artist Philippe de Champaigne held in Paris's Louvre. One of Champaigne's most accomplished works, it is a votive offering (an ex-voto) by the painter which depicts a miracle involving his daughter that is said to have occurred at the Port-Royal-des-Champs Cistercian convent.The painting includes a Latin inscription on the wall on the left of the painting. Neither the text nor the lettering were Champaigne's work.. Ex-Voto de 1662 is a painting by the French artist Philippe de Champaigne held in Paris's Louvre. One of Champaigne's most accomplished works, it is a votive offering (an ex-voto) by the painter which depicts a miracle involving his daughter that is said to have occurred at the Port-Royal-des-Champs Cistercian convent. A ray of light illuminates Mother-Superior Agnès Arnauld, who experienced on the ninth day of her novena for Champaigne's daughter, Sister Catherine de Sainte Suzanne, the hope that a cure would come for Sister Catherine. Catherine (seated, praying) was the painter's only surviving child, and had been suffering from a paralyzing illness. Until that point, prayer and medical treatments ("potions, baths, unctions, and thirty bleedings") had proven futile. After the Mother-Superior's novena, Sister Catherine soon attempted to walk, and found herself increasingly mobile; the illness no longer seemed present. The painting is a statement of gratitude by the father for the cure of his daughter. The miracle it portrays also symbolized hope for the cause of the Jansenists, who were subject to persecution by ecclesiastical and civil authorities. The Jansenists followed Cornelius Jansen, who reasserted the theology of St. Augustine, and were in conflict with the Jesuits. Their refusal to sign a document condemning five propositions found in Jansen's Augustinus resulted in their being deprived of the sacraments and confined to the abbey, which was eventually torn down. The composition is unique among Champaigne's work, with the two figures having richly defined, "sculptural" forms, lending them vitality and setting them off from the restricted hues and "angular simplicity" of the setting (Rand 1990). The figures dominate the canvas, giving the painting a monumental quality. The texture, weight, and folds of the robes are modeled in great detail, revealing Champaigne's Flemish training. His decision to portray the moment that Mother-Superior Agnès is instilled with hope, rather than the cure itself, is evident in the fact that the ray of light illuminates her instead of his daughter. The light develops a "chronological tension" that suggests "what will happen as a result of what is happening" (Rand 1983). The painting includes a Latin inscription on the wall on the left of the painting. Neither the text nor the lettering were Champaigne's work. The inscription, addressed to Christ, tells that Sister Catherine suffered for 14 months from a high fever and that half her body was paralyzed. She prayed with Mother Agnès and her health was restored, and again she offered herself to Christ..
Fine Wind, Clear Morning. Author Name: Hokusai. . . Fine Wind, Clear Morning (Japanese: 凱風快晴 Gaifū kaisei), also known as South Wind, Clear Sky  or Red Fuji, is wood block print by Japanese artist Hokusai (1760–1849), part of his Thirty-six Views of Mount Fuji series. It dates from about 1830–32, the Edo period, and is currently held by museums worldwide, including the British Museum in London, the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City, and the Indianapolis Museum of Art.. Fine Wind, Clear Morning (Japanese: 凱風快晴 Gaifū kaisei), also known as South Wind, Clear Sky or Red Fuji, is wood block print by Japanese artist Hokusai (1760–1849), part of his Thirty-six Views of Mount Fuji series. It dates from about 1830–32, the Edo period, and is currently held by museums worldwide, including the British Museum in London, the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City, and the Indianapolis Museum of Art..
Flagellation of Christ. Author Name: Piero della Francesca. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Flagellation of Christ (probably 1455–1460) is a painting by Piero della Francesca in the Galleria Nazionale delle Marche in Urbino, Italy. Called by one writer an "enigmatic little painting," the composition is complex and unusual, and its iconography has been the subject of widely differing theories. Kenneth Clark placed The Flagellation in his personal list of the best ten paintings, calling it 'the greatest small painting in the world'.. The Flagellation of Christ (probably 1455–1460) is a painting by Piero della Francesca in the Galleria Nazionale delle Marche in Urbino, Italy. Called by one writer an "enigmatic little painting," the composition is complex and unusual, and its iconography has been the subject of widely differing theories. Kenneth Clark placed The Flagellation in his personal list of the best ten paintings, calling it 'the greatest small painting in the world'..
Floralis Genérica. Author Name: Catalano, Eduardo. . . Floralis Genérica is a sculpture made of steel and aluminum located in Plaza de las Naciones Unidas, Avenida Figueroa Alcorta, Buenos Aires, a gift to the city by the Argentine architect Eduardo Catalano. Catalano once said that the flower "is a synthesis of all the flowers and is both a hope that is reborn every day to open." It was created in 2002. The sculpture was designed to move, closing its petals in the evening and opening them in the morning.. Floralis Genérica is a sculpture made of steel and aluminum located in Plaza de las Naciones Unidas, Avenida Figueroa Alcorta, Buenos Aires, a gift to the city by the Argentine architect Eduardo Catalano. Catalano once said that the flower "is a synthesis of all the flowers and is both a hope that is reborn every day to open." It was created in 2002. The sculpture was designed to move, closing its petals in the evening and opening them in the morning. The sculpture is located in the center of a park of four acres of wooded boundaries, surrounded by paths that get closer and provide different perspectives of the monument, and placed above a reflecting pool, which apart from fulfilling its aesthetic function, protects it. It represents a large flower made of stainless steel with aluminum skeleton and reinforced concrete, which looks at the sky, extending to its six petals. It weighs eighteen tons and is 23 meters high..
Footballer. Author Name: Nolan, Sidney. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Angry_Penguins. . Footballer is a 1946 painting by Australian artist Sidney Nolan. It depicts an Australian rules footballer standing before a crowd of spectators at a football match. For many years the painting was thought to be a generic image of a footballer, however Nolan later revealed that the painting is based on Bill Mohr, a star player for the St Kilda Football Club during the 1930s.. Footballer is a 1946 painting by Australian artist Sidney Nolan. It depicts an Australian rules footballer standing before a crowd of spectators at a football match. For many years the painting was thought to be a generic image of a footballer, however Nolan later revealed that the painting is based on Bill Mohr, a star player for the St Kilda Football Club during the 1930s. In 2002, the painting was acquired by the National Gallery of Victoria, and has become one of the gallery's most popular works. According to journalist Geoff McClure, Footballer "has special significance because, together with Drysdale's The Cricketers, it represents virtually the entire sports-related work ever done by our masters.".
Four Seasons. Author Name: Marc Chagall. . Author Movement: *. . Four Seasons is a mosaic by Marc Chagall that is located in Chase Tower Plaza in the Loop district of Chicago, Illinois. The mosaic was a gift to the City of Chicago by Frederick H. Prince (via the Prince Charitable Trusts); it is wrapped around four sides of a 70 feet (21 m) long, 14 feet (4.3 m) high, 10 feet (3.0 m) wide rectangular box, and was dedicated on September 27, 1974. It was renovated in 1994 and a protective glass canopy was installed.The mosaic was the subject of a 1974 documentary film, The Gift: Four Seasons Mosaic of Marc Chagall, directed by Chuck Olin.. Four Seasons is a mosaic by Marc Chagall that is located in Chase Tower Plaza in the Loop district of Chicago, Illinois. The mosaic was a gift to the City of Chicago by Frederick H. Prince (via the Prince Charitable Trusts); it is wrapped around four sides of a 70 feet (21 m) long, 14 feet (4.3 m) high, 10 feet (3.0 m) wide rectangular box, and was dedicated on September 27, 1974. It was renovated in 1994 and a protective glass canopy was installed. The mosaic was the subject of a 1974 documentary film, The Gift: Four Seasons Mosaic of Marc Chagall, directed by Chuck Olin..
Fulcrum. Author Name: Richard Serra. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Process_art. . Fulcrum is a large sculpture by American artist Richard Serra installed in 1987 near the western entrance to Liverpool Street station, London, as part of the Broadgate development. The sculpture consists of five pieces of Cor-Ten steel, and is approximately 55 feet (17 m) tall. Deyan Sudjic, director of the Design Museum, has called it one of London's "design icons".. Fulcrum is a large sculpture by American artist Richard Serra installed in 1987 near the western entrance to Liverpool Street station, London, as part of the Broadgate development. The sculpture consists of five pieces of Cor-Ten steel, and is approximately 55 feet (17 m) tall. Deyan Sudjic, director of the Design Museum, has called it one of London's "design icons"..
Fur Traders Descending the Missouri. Author Name: George Caleb Bingham. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Luminism_(American_art_style). . Fur Traders Descending the Missouri is an 1845 painting by George Caleb Bingham. Bingham brought the painting to St. Louis, Missouri on June 4, 1845, along with several other pieces of artwork.One of Bingham's most famous paintings, this work is owned by the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. Painted around 1845 in the style called luminism by some historians of American art, it was originally entitled, French-Trader, Half-breed Son. The American Art Union thought the title potentially controversial and renamed it when it was first exhibited. It reflected the reality of fur traders' common marriages with Native American women; in Canada the Métis ethnic group formed as a result. The painting is haunting for its evocation of an era in American history-—note, in particular, the liberty . Fur Traders Descending the Missouri is an 1845 painting by George Caleb Bingham. Bingham brought the painting to St. Louis, Missouri on June 4, 1845, along with several other pieces of artwork. One of Bingham's most famous paintings, this work is owned by the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. Painted around 1845 in the style called luminism by some historians of American art, it was originally entitled, French-Trader, Half-breed Son. The American Art Union thought the title potentially controversial and renamed it when it was first exhibited. It reflected the reality of fur traders' common marriages with Native American women; in Canada the Métis ethnic group formed as a result. The painting is haunting for its evocation of an era in American history-—note, in particular, the liberty cap worn by the older man. The animal in the boat is widely accepted as a bear cub and not a cat..
Gabrielle with Open Blouse. Author Name: Pierre-Auguste Renoir. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Gabrielle with Open Blouse (French: Gabrielle Avec la Chemise Ouverte) is an oil on canvas painting by French impressionist artist Pierre-Auguste Renoir. It is in the collection of the Tehran Museum of Contemporary Art. The painting is kept in the basement of the museum and is not displayed because of the model's open blouse.. Gabrielle with Open Blouse (French: Gabrielle Avec la Chemise Ouverte) is an oil on canvas painting by French impressionist artist Pierre-Auguste Renoir. It is in the collection of the Tehran Museum of Contemporary Art. The painting is kept in the basement of the museum and is not displayed because of the model's open blouse..
Galatea of the Spheres. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Galatea of the Spheres is a painting by Salvador Dalí made in 1952. It depicts Gala Dalí, Salvador Dalí's wife and muse, as pieced together through a series of spheres. The name Galatea refers to a sea nymph of Classical mythology renowned for her virtue, and may also refer to the statue beloved by its creator, Pygmalion.. Galatea of the Spheres is a painting by Salvador Dalí made in 1952. It depicts Gala Dalí, Salvador Dalí's wife and muse, as pieced together through a series of spheres. The name Galatea refers to a sea nymph of Classical mythology renowned for her virtue, and may also refer to the statue beloved by its creator, Pygmalion..
Game of Bowls. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . Game of Bowls is a 1908 painting by the French artist Henri Matisse. The painting shows three young men, probably Matisse's sons and nephew, playing a game of Boules. Matisse sees the game as a manifestation of man's creativity, and an instrument to use in understanding the codes of life. The painting is part of Matisse's series on man's "Golden Age" and was part of Sergei Shchukin's collection before the October Revolution of 1917. It is now in the collection of The Hermitage, St. Petersburg, Russia.. Game of Bowls is a 1908 painting by the French artist Henri Matisse. The painting shows three young men, probably Matisse's sons and nephew, playing a game of Boules. Matisse sees the game as a manifestation of man's creativity, and an instrument to use in understanding the codes of life. The painting is part of Matisse's series on man's "Golden Age" and was part of Sergei Shchukin's collection before the October Revolution of 1917. It is now in the collection of The Hermitage, St. Petersburg, Russia..
Gare Montparnasse. Author Name: Giorgio de Chirico. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Metaphysical_art. . Gare Montparnasse (The Melancholy of Departure) (Italian: La stazione di Montparnasse) (1914) is a painting by the Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio de Chirico. Many of de Chirico’s works were inspired by the introspective feelings evoked by travel. He was born in Greece to Italian parents. This work was painted during a period when he lived in Paris.In 1916, de Chirico painted another work simply titled The Melancholy of Departure.. Gare Montparnasse (The Melancholy of Departure) (Italian: La stazione di Montparnasse) (1914) is a painting by the Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio de Chirico. Many of de Chirico’s works were inspired by the introspective feelings evoked by travel. He was born in Greece to Italian parents. This work was painted during a period when he lived in Paris. The painting depicts the Gare Montparnasse railway station in Paris, France. It is a classic example of de Chirico’s style, depicting an angular perspective on an outdoor architectural setting in the long shadows and deep colours of early evening. On the horizon is a steam train with a plume of white smoke billowing away from it. The train image appears several times in de Chirico's work. In the foreground is a bunch of bananas, another recurring image in de Chirico's work (cf. Le Rêve Transformé). In 1916, de Chirico painted another work simply titled The Melancholy of Departure..
Giant Magnolias on a Blue Velvet Cloth. Author Name: Martin Johnson Heade. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Hudson_River_School. . Giant Magnolias on a Blue Velvet Cloth (1890) is an oil on canvas still-life by Martin Johnson Heade acquired by the National Gallery of Art in 1982. Heade made significant contributions to floral still-life painting during the course of his career, the NGA points out, with Giant Magnolias being one of the finest. Heade married in 1883 and settled in St. Augustine, Florida after a lackluster career as an itinerant artist. He was patronized by Floridian Henry Morrison Flagler, an oil and railroad magnate, who regularly purchased his works. The NGA believes this personal and professional stability stimulated the production of the still-life paintings of Heade's last years.. Giant Magnolias on a Blue Velvet Cloth (1890) is an oil on canvas still-life by Martin Johnson Heade acquired by the National Gallery of Art in 1982. Heade made significant contributions to floral still-life painting during the course of his career, the NGA points out, with Giant Magnolias being one of the finest. Heade married in 1883 and settled in St. Augustine, Florida after a lackluster career as an itinerant artist. He was patronized by Floridian Henry Morrison Flagler, an oil and railroad magnate, who regularly purchased his works. The NGA believes this personal and professional stability stimulated the production of the still-life paintings of Heade's last years. The NGA writes, "Certainly works such as Giant Magnolias on a Blue Velvet Cloth, with their striking contrasts of brilliantly lit flowers and leaves set against a dark background, are among the most original still lifes of the nineteenth century. They are also for many observers strongly sensual, their lush colors, full, curving contours, overall sense of opulence, and implied perfumed scent of the flowers suggestive, perhaps, of female nudes languidly reclining on luxurious couches.".
Ginevra de’ Benci. Author Name: Leonardo da Vinci. . . Ginevra de’ Benci is a portrait painting by Leonardo da Vinci of the 15th-century Florentine aristocrat Ginevra de’ Benci (born c. 1458). The oil-on-wood portrait was acquired by the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C., United States, in 1967. The sum of US$5 million—a record price at the time—came from the Ailsa Mellon Bruce Fund and was paid to the Princely House of Liechtenstein. It is the only painting by Leonardo on public view in the Americas.. Ginevra de’ Benci is a portrait painting by Leonardo da Vinci of the 15th-century Florentine aristocrat Ginevra de’ Benci (born c. 1458). The oil-on-wood portrait was acquired by the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C., United States, in 1967. The sum of US$5 million—a record price at the time—came from the Ailsa Mellon Bruce Fund and was paid to the Princely House of Liechtenstein. It is the only painting by Leonardo on public view in the Americas. It is known that Leonardo painted a portrait of Ginevra de’ Benci in 1474, painted in Florence possibly to commemorate her marriage that year to Luigi di Bernardo Niccolini at the age of 16. According to Giorgio Vasari’s Lives of the Artists (second edition, 1568), however, Ginevra was not the daughter of Amerigo de’ Benci, and the wife of Luigi di Bernardo Niccolini. They married on 14 January 1474. The painting’s imagery and the text on the reverse of the panel support the identification of this picture. Directly behind the young lady in the portrait is a juniper tree. The reverse of the portrait is decorated with a juniper sprig encircled by a wreath of laurel and palm and is memorialized by the phrase ("beauty adorns virtue"). The Latin motto , on the reverse of the portrait, also is understood as symbolizing her intellectual and moral virtue, while the sprig of juniper ("ginepro"), encircled by laurel and palm, suggests Ginevra's name. The laurel and palm are in the personal emblem of Bernardo Bembo, Venetian ambassador to Florence, whose platonic relationship with Ginevra is revealed in poems dedicated to them. Infrared examination has revealed Bembo's motto "Virtue and Honor" beneath Ginevra's. So it is likely Bembo ordered the emblematic painting on the verso of the portrait. The researcher and cryptographer Carla Glori, in her book “Enigma Leonardo:decifrazioni e scoperte” by using a scientific method to decipher the message encrypted by the motto VIRTUTEM FORMA DECORAT, discovered a Latin sentence with the very same alphabetical letters, having a meaning referable to the portrait and to the biography of Ginevra Benci. The portrait is one of the highlights of the National Gallery of Art, and is admired by many for its portrayal of Ginevra's temperament. Ginevra is beautiful, but austere; she has no hint of a smile and her gaze, although forward, seems indifferent to the viewer. A strip from the bottom of the painting was removed in the past, presumably owing to damage, and Ginevra's arms and hands were lost. Using the golden section, Susan Dorothea White has drawn an interpretation of how her arms and hands may have been positioned in the original.[citation needed] The adaptation is based on images of hands by Leonardo that are thought to have been executed as studies for this painting. According to Giorgio Vasari, Ginevra de’ Benci was also included in the fresco by Domenico Ghirlandaio of the Visitation of Mary and Elizabeth in the church of Santa Maria Novella in Florence, but it is now believed that Vasari made a mistake and that Ghirlandaio painted Giovanna Tornabuoni.[citation needed] As a woman of renowned beauty, Ginevra de' Benci was also the subject of ten poems written by members of the Medici circle, Cristoforo Landino and Alessandro Braccesi, and of two sonnets by Lorenzo de' Medici himself. According to the art-critic Maike Vogt-Luerssen the depicted lady is not Ginevra de' Benci but Fioretta Gorini, the widow of Giuliano de' Medici..
Girl Interrupted at her Music. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . Girl Interrupted at her Music is a painting by the Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer. It was painted in the baroque style, probably between the years 1658 and 1659, using oil on canvas. In this painting, Vermeer depicts a young woman at her music with an older gentleman. This painting shows the typical courtship during the 17th century in Europe. It also focuses on the importance of music when it comes to love. The room that they are shown in is one of higher class, most likely belonging to a person of haute bourgeoisie. The painting is very reminiscent of Vermeer’s other works.. Girl Interrupted at her Music is a painting by the Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer. It was painted in the baroque style, probably between the years 1658 and 1659, using oil on canvas. In this painting, Vermeer depicts a young woman at her music with an older gentleman. This painting shows the typical courtship during the 17th century in Europe. It also focuses on the importance of music when it comes to love. The room that they are shown in is one of higher class, most likely belonging to a person of haute bourgeoisie. The painting is very reminiscent of Vermeer’s other works..
Girl at Sewing Machine. Author Name: Edward Hopper. . . Girl at Sewing Machine is a 1921 painting by Edward Hopper, currently housed in the Museo Thyssen-Bornemisza in Madrid, Spain. It portrays a young girl sitting at a sewing machine facing a window on a beautiful sunny day. The location appears to be New York as is evident from the yellow bricks in the window. The exterior vantage point although present only aids in putting the interior activity in perspective.It is one of the first of many of Hopper's "window paintings". Hopper's repeated decision to pose a young woman against her sewing is said to be his commentary on solitude.. Girl at Sewing Machine is a 1921 painting by Edward Hopper, currently housed in the Museo Thyssen-Bornemisza in Madrid, Spain. It portrays a young girl sitting at a sewing machine facing a window on a beautiful sunny day. The location appears to be New York as is evident from the yellow bricks in the window. The exterior vantage point although present only aids in putting the interior activity in perspective. It is one of the first of many of Hopper's "window paintings". Hopper's repeated decision to pose a young woman against her sewing is said to be his commentary on solitude. The painting is the inspiration for Mary Leader's poem of the same name..
Girl in a Blue Dress. Author Name: Johannes Verspronck. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Girl in a Blue Dress, also called Portrait of a Girl Dressed in Blue (Dutch: Portret van een meisje in het blauw) or simply Portrait of a Girl (Dutch: Portret van een meisje), is an oil painting by Johannes Cornelisz Verspronck in the collection of the Rijksmuseum. It was acquired by the museum in 1928 as a gift from the Vereniging Rembrandt.. Girl in a Blue Dress, also called Portrait of a Girl Dressed in Blue (Dutch: Portret van een meisje in het blauw) or simply Portrait of a Girl (Dutch: Portret van een meisje), is an oil painting by Johannes Cornelisz Verspronck in the collection of the Rijksmuseum. It was acquired by the museum in 1928 as a gift from the Vereniging Rembrandt..
Girl in a Wetsuit. Author Name: Elek Imredy. . . Girl in a Wetsuit is a life size bronze sculpture by Elek Imredy of a woman in a wetsuit, located on a rock in the water along the north side of Stanley Park, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.. Girl in a Wetsuit is a life size bronze sculpture by Elek Imredy of a woman in a wetsuit, located on a rock in the water along the north side of Stanley Park, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada..
Girl in a White Kimono. Author Name: George Hendrik Breitner. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/19th-century_Dutch_literature. . Girl in a White Kimono (Dutch: Meisje in witte kimono) is an 1894 oil painting by George Hendrik Breitner. The subject of the painting is the sixteen-year-old Geesje Kwak, of whom Breitner made a series of photographs and paintings wearing red and white kimonos. The painting was inspired by the style of Japanese prints and is an example of Japonism. The painting is in the collection of the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam.. Girl in a White Kimono (Dutch: Meisje in witte kimono) is an 1894 oil painting by George Hendrik Breitner. The subject of the painting is the sixteen-year-old Geesje Kwak, of whom Breitner made a series of photographs and paintings wearing red and white kimonos. The painting was inspired by the style of Japanese prints and is an example of Japonism. The painting is in the collection of the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam..
Girl with a Pearl Earring. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . Girl with a Pearl Earring (Dutch: Meisje met de parel) is an oil painting by 17th-century Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer. It is a tronie of a girl with a headscarf and a pearl earring. The painting has been in the collection of the Mauritshuis in The Hague since 1902.. Girl with a Pearl Earring (Dutch: Meisje met de parel) is an oil painting by 17th-century Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer. It is a tronie of a girl with a headscarf and a pearl earring. The painting has been in the collection of the Mauritshuis in The Hague since 1902..
Golconde. Author Name: René Magritte. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Surrealism. . Golconda (French: Golconde) is an oil painting on canvas by Belgian surrealist René Magritte, painted in 1953. It is usually housed at the Menil Collection in Houston, Texas.The piece depicts a scene of "raining men", nearly identical to each other dressed in dark overcoats and bowler hats, who seem to be either falling down like rain drops, floating up like helium balloons, or just stationed in mid air as no movement or motion is implied. The backdrop features red-roofed buildings and a mostly blue partly cloudy sky, lending credence to the theory that the men are not raining. The men are equally spaced in a lattice, facing the viewpoint and receding back in rhombic grid layers.. Golconda (French: Golconde) is an oil painting on canvas by Belgian surrealist René Magritte, painted in 1953. It is usually housed at the Menil Collection in Houston, Texas. The piece depicts a scene of "raining men", nearly identical to each other dressed in dark overcoats and bowler hats, who seem to be either falling down like rain drops, floating up like helium balloons, or just stationed in mid air as no movement or motion is implied. The backdrop features red-roofed buildings and a mostly blue partly cloudy sky, lending credence to the theory that the men are not raining. The men are equally spaced in a lattice, facing the viewpoint and receding back in rhombic grid layers. Magritte lived in a similar suburban environment, and dressed in a similar fashion. The bowler hat was a common feature of much of his work, and appears in paintings such as The Son of Man. Charly Herscovici, who was bequeathed copyright on the artist's works, commented on Golconda: One interpretation is that Magritte is demonstrating the line between individuality and group association, and how it is blurred. All of these men are dressed the same, have the same bodily features and are all floating/falling. This leaves us to look at the men as a group. Whereas if we look at each person, we can predict that they may be completely different from another figure. As was often the case with Magritte's works, the title Golconda was found by his poet friend Louis Scutenaire. Golkonda is a ruined city in the state of Telangana, India, near Hyderabad, which from the mid-14th century until the end of the 17th was the capital of two successive kingdoms; the fame it acquired through being the center of the region's legendary diamond industry was such that its name remains, according to the Oxford English Dictionary, "a synonym for 'mine of wealth'." Magritte included a likeness of Scutenaire in the painting – his face is used for the large man by the chimney of the house on the right of the picture..
Golf Ball. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Golf Ball (sometimes Golfball) is a 1962 painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It is considered to fall within the art movement known as Pop art. It depicts "a single sphere with patterned, variously directional semi-circular grooves." The work is commonly associated with black-and-white Piet Mondrian works. It is one of the works that was presented at Lichtenstein's first solo exhibition and one that was critical to his early association with pop art. The work is commonly critiqued for its tension involving a three-dimensional representation in two dimensions with much discussion revolving around the choice of a background nearly without any perspective.. Golf Ball (sometimes Golfball) is a 1962 painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It is considered to fall within the art movement known as Pop art. It depicts "a single sphere with patterned, variously directional semi-circular grooves." The work is commonly associated with black-and-white Piet Mondrian works. It is one of the works that was presented at Lichtenstein's first solo exhibition and one that was critical to his early association with pop art. The work is commonly critiqued for its tension involving a three-dimensional representation in two dimensions with much discussion revolving around the choice of a background nearly without any perspective..
Graft. Author Name: Roxy Paine. . . Graft is a sculpture by Roxy Paine. It was installed on October 26–30 2008, in the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden.It is part of a "Dendroids" series begun in 1998. Made of Stainless steel, it weighs 16,000 pounds.. Graft is a sculpture by Roxy Paine. It was installed on October 26–30 2008, in the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden. It is part of a "Dendroids" series begun in 1998. Made of Stainless steel, it weighs 16,000 pounds..
Greece on the ruins of Missolonghi. Author Name: Eugène Delacroix. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . Greece on the Ruins of Missolonghi (French: La Grèce sur les ruines de Missolonghi) is an 1826 oil painting by French painter Eugène Delacroix, and now preserved at the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Bordeaux. This painting was inspired by the Third Siege of Missolonghi by the Ottoman forces in 1826, during which many people of the city after the long-time siege (almost a year) decided to attempt a mass breakout (sortie) to escape famine and epidemics. The attempt resulted in a disaster, with the larger part of the Greeks slain.. Greece on the Ruins of Missolonghi (French: La Grèce sur les ruines de Missolonghi) is an 1826 oil painting by French painter Eugène Delacroix, and now preserved at the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Bordeaux. This painting was inspired by the Third Siege of Missolonghi by the Ottoman forces in 1826, during which many people of the city after the long-time siege (almost a year) decided to attempt a mass breakout (sortie) to escape famine and epidemics. The attempt resulted in a disaster, with the larger part of the Greeks slain..
Green Coca-Cola Bottles. Author Name: Andy Warhol. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Green Coca-Cola Bottles is a 1962 painting by Andy Warhol that depicts numerous Coca-Cola bottles.. Green Coca-Cola Bottles is a 1962 painting by Andy Warhol that depicts numerous Coca-Cola bottles..
Grrrrrrrrrrr!!. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Grrrrrrrrrrr!! is a 1965 oil and Magna on canvas painting by Roy Lichtenstein. Measuring 68 in × 56.125 in (172.7 cm × 142.6 cm), it was bequeathed to the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum collection from Lichtenstein's estate. It depicts a head-on representation of an angry dog growling with the onomatopoeic expression "Grrrrrrrrrrr!!". The work was derived from Our Fighting Forces, which also served as the source for other military dog paintwork by Lichtenstein.. Grrrrrrrrrrr!! is a 1965 oil and Magna on canvas painting by Roy Lichtenstein. Measuring 68 in × 56.125 in (172.7 cm × 142.6 cm), it was bequeathed to the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum collection from Lichtenstein's estate. It depicts a head-on representation of an angry dog growling with the onomatopoeic expression "Grrrrrrrrrrr!!". The work was derived from Our Fighting Forces, which also served as the source for other military dog paintwork by Lichtenstein..
Gualino Madonna. Author Name: Duccio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Gothic_art. . The Gualino Madonna is a painting attributed to Italian late medieval artist Duccio di Buoninsegna. It is housed in the Galleria Sabauda of Turin, northern Italy.. The Gualino Madonna is a painting attributed to Italian late medieval artist Duccio di Buoninsegna. It is housed in the Galleria Sabauda of Turin, northern Italy..
Haller Madonna. Author Name: Albrecht Dürer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Haller Madonna is an oil painting by Albrecht Dürer, dating to around 1498. It is now in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, DC.. The Haller Madonna is an oil painting by Albrecht Dürer, dating to around 1498. It is now in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, DC..
Harvest Threshing. Author Name: Albert Gleizes. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_art. . Le Dépiquage des Moissons, also known as Harvest Threshing, and The Harvesters, is an immense oil painting created in 1912 by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes (1881–1953). It was first revealed to the general public at the Salon de la Section d'Or, Galerie La Boétie in Paris, October 1912 (no. 43). This work, along with La Ville de Paris (City of Paris) by Robert Delaunay, is the largest and most ambitious Cubist painting undertaken during the pre-War Cubist period. Formerly in the collection of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York, this monumental painting by Gleizes is exhibited at the National Museum of Western Art, in Tokyo, Japan.. Le Dépiquage des Moissons, also known as Harvest Threshing, and The Harvesters, is an immense oil painting created in 1912 by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes (1881–1953). It was first revealed to the general public at the Salon de la Section d'Or, Galerie La Boétie in Paris, October 1912 (no. 43). This work, along with La Ville de Paris (City of Paris) by Robert Delaunay, is the largest and most ambitious Cubist painting undertaken during the pre-War Cubist period. Formerly in the collection of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York, this monumental painting by Gleizes is exhibited at the National Museum of Western Art, in Tokyo, Japan..
Head on a Green Sofa. Author Name: Lucian Freud. . . Head on a Green Sofa is an oil painting by Lucian Freud executed in 1960-61. It is a portrait of the late Lady Lambton, wife of Antony Lambton, Viscount Lambton, 6th Earl of Durham. It was sold at Sotheby's, London, 12 February 2014 by its then owner Edward Lambton, 7th Earl of Durham, for £2,994,500.. Head on a Green Sofa is an oil painting by Lucian Freud executed in 1960-61. It is a portrait of the late Lady Lambton, wife of Antony Lambton, Viscount Lambton, 6th Earl of Durham. It was sold at Sotheby's, London, 12 February 2014 by its then owner Edward Lambton, 7th Earl of Durham, for £2,994,500..
Headbutt. Author Name: Abdessemed, Adel. . . Headbutt (French: Coup de tête) is a sculpture by the French artist Adel Abdessemed. It is 5 m (16.4 ft) tall and made from bronze. It was unveiled on 26 September 2012 at the Centre Pompidou in Paris, France.. Headbutt (French: Coup de tête) is a sculpture by the French artist Adel Abdessemed. It is 5 m (16.4 ft) tall and made from bronze. It was unveiled on 26 September 2012 at the Centre Pompidou in Paris, France..
Hehe Xiexie. Author Name: Zhang Huan. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Contemporary_art. . Hehe Xiexie, or Hehe, Xiexie, is an outdoor 2009–2010 sculpture created by Zhang Huan as part of Art for the World, a collection of twenty monumental sculptures along the Expo Axis organised by Jean-Gabriel Mitterrand, for Expo 2010. It is still installed at Expo Boulevard in Shanghai, China.. Hehe Xiexie, or Hehe, Xiexie, is an outdoor 2009–2010 sculpture created by Zhang Huan as part of Art for the World, a collection of twenty monumental sculptures along the Expo Axis organised by Jean-Gabriel Mitterrand, for Expo 2010. It is still installed at Expo Boulevard in Shanghai, China..
Her Secret Is Patience. Author Name: Echelman, Janet. . . Her Secret Is Patience is a $2.5 million public art sculpture commission designed by artist Janet Echelman for the city of Phoenix. Its creation was the result of collaboration between the artist and a team of award-winning engineers, architects, planners, and fabricators. It is located downtown in the Civic Space Park across from the Walter Cronkite School of Journalism at Arizona State University. The sculpture consists of painted, galvanized steel; polyester twine netting; and colored lights. The title of the piece is a quote from Ralph Waldo Emerson and during construction it was unofficially titled Sky Bloom.. Her Secret Is Patience is a $2.5 million public art sculpture commission designed by artist Janet Echelman for the city of Phoenix. Its creation was the result of collaboration between the artist and a team of award-winning engineers, architects, planners, and fabricators. It is located downtown in the Civic Space Park across from the Walter Cronkite School of Journalism at Arizona State University. The sculpture consists of painted, galvanized steel; polyester twine netting; and colored lights. The title of the piece is a quote from Ralph Waldo Emerson and during construction it was unofficially titled Sky Bloom..
Hip, Hip, Hurrah!. Author Name: P.S. Krøyer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Hip, Hip, Hurrah! (Danish: Hip, hip, hurra! Kunstnerfest på Skagen) is an oil-on-canvas painting from 1888 by Norwegian-Danish painter Peder Severin Krøyer.. Hip, Hip, Hurrah! (Danish: Hip, hip, hurra! Kunstnerfest på Skagen) is an oil-on-canvas painting from 1888 by Norwegian-Danish painter Peder Severin Krøyer..
Houses at l'Estaque. Author Name: Georges Braque. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Houses at l'Estaque (French: Maisons à l'Estaque) is a 1908 oil painting by Georges Braque. It is considered either an important Proto-Cubist landscape or the first Cubist landscape. The painting prompted art critic Louis Vauxcelles to mock it as being composed of cubes which led to the name of the movement.It is a response to works by Paul Cézanne who also lived in L'Estaque at times.. Houses at l'Estaque (French: Maisons à l'Estaque) is a 1908 oil painting by Georges Braque. It is considered either an important Proto-Cubist landscape or the first Cubist landscape. The painting prompted art critic Louis Vauxcelles to mock it as being composed of cubes which led to the name of the movement. It is a response to works by Paul Cézanne who also lived in L'Estaque at times..
I Can See the Whole Room...and There's Nobody in It!. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . I Can See the Whole Room...and There's Nobody in It! (sometimes I Can See the Whole Room and There's Nobody in It! or simply I Can See the Whole Room!) is a 1961 painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It is a painting of a man looking through a peephole. It formerly held the record for highest auction price for a Lichtenstein painting.. I Can See the Whole Room...and There's Nobody in It! (sometimes I Can See the Whole Room and There's Nobody in It! or simply I Can See the Whole Room!) is a 1961 painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It is a painting of a man looking through a peephole. It formerly held the record for highest auction price for a Lichtenstein painting. The work is based on a William Overgard-drawn comics panel from a Steve Roper cartoon. Lichtenstein's derivation augments the presentation of the narrative and expands the use of color in the image. As with the original the image employs the theme of vision, and focuses specifically on mechanized vision as well as monocularity..
I Know...Brad. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . I Know...Brad (sometimes I Know How You Must Feel, Brad) is a 1964 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein that uses his classic Ben-Day dots and a speech balloon. The work is located at the Wallraf-Richartz Museum in Cologne. It is an example of how Lichtenstein used his artistry to make significant changes to the original comics sources.. I Know...Brad (sometimes I Know How You Must Feel, Brad) is a 1964 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein that uses his classic Ben-Day dots and a speech balloon. The work is located at the Wallraf-Richartz Museum in Cologne. It is an example of how Lichtenstein used his artistry to make significant changes to the original comics sources..
I Saw the Figure 5 in Gold. Author Name: Charles Demuth. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Precisionism. . I Saw the Figure 5 in Gold, also known as The Figure 5 in Gold, is a 1928 painting by American artist Charles Demuth. It has been described as influenced by Futurism and Cubism. Painted as an homage to Demuth's friend William Carlos Williams, the painting references Williams' poem The Great Figure, which describes a fire engine speeding through the streets of a city (possibly New York) on a rainy night. The painting's title is a phrase from the poem.. I Saw the Figure 5 in Gold, also known as The Figure 5 in Gold, is a 1928 painting by American artist Charles Demuth. It has been described as influenced by Futurism and Cubism. Painted as an homage to Demuth's friend William Carlos Williams, the painting references Williams' poem The Great Figure, which describes a fire engine speeding through the streets of a city (possibly New York) on a rainy night. The painting's title is a phrase from the poem..
Idle Hours. Author Name: William Merritt Chase. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Idle Hours is an oil on canvas landscape painting by the American Impressionist painter William Merritt Chase. Completed in 1894, it measures 90.2 by 64.8 centimeters, and is now housed at the Amon Carter Museum of American Art, Fort Worth. It is one of many paintings by Chase that depicted his wife and children at ease.. Idle Hours is an oil on canvas landscape painting by the American Impressionist painter William Merritt Chase. Completed in 1894, it measures 90.2 by 64.8 centimeters, and is now housed at the Amon Carter Museum of American Art, Fort Worth. It is one of many paintings by Chase that depicted his wife and children at ease..
Impression, soleil levant. Author Name: Claude Monet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Impression, Sunrise (French: Impression, soleil levant) is a painting by Claude Monet. Shown at what would later be known as the "Exhibition of the Impressionists" in April 1874, the painting is attributed to giving rise to the name of the Impressionist movement. Impression, Sunrise depicts the port of Le Havre, Monet's hometown, and is his most famous painting of the harbor.. Impression, Sunrise (French: Impression, soleil levant) is a painting by Claude Monet. Shown at what would later be known as the "Exhibition of the Impressionists" in April 1874, the painting is attributed to giving rise to the name of the Impressionist movement. Impression, Sunrise depicts the port of Le Havre, Monet's hometown, and is his most famous painting of the harbor..
Isolated Mass/Circumflex. Author Name: Michael Heizer. . . Isolated Mass/Circumflex (Number 2), stylized as Isolated Mass/Circumflex (#2), an outdoor 1968–1978 sculpture by Michael Heizer, installed outside the Menil Collection in Houston, Texas, United States. The work is one of several by Heizer in the Menil Collection.. Isolated Mass/Circumflex (Number 2), stylized as Isolated Mass/Circumflex (#2), an outdoor 1968–1978 sculpture by Michael Heizer, installed outside the Menil Collection in Houston, Texas, United States. The work is one of several by Heizer in the Menil Collection..
Jimson Weed. Author Name: Georgia O'Keeffe. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/American_modernism. . Jimson Weed is an oil on linen painting by American artist Georgia O'Keeffe from 1936, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, USA. It depicts four large blossoms of jimson weed, or datura.. Jimson Weed is an oil on linen painting by American artist Georgia O'Keeffe from 1936, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, USA. It depicts four large blossoms of jimson weed, or datura..
Joan of Arc. Author Name: Emmanuel Frémiet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Animalier. . Joan of Arc, also known as Joan of Arc, Maiden of Orleans, is an outdoor copy of Emmanuel Frémiet's equestrian statue Jeanne d'Arc (1874), installed in Portland, Oregon's Laurelhurst neighborhood, in the United States. The bronze sculpture, which depicts Joan of Arc, was donated to the city by Henry Waldo Coe, who saw Frémiet's original statue in Paris. Portland's copy arrived from France in 1924 and was dedicated on Memorial Day in 2015 in honor of the Doughboys of World War I.. Joan of Arc, also known as Joan of Arc, Maiden of Orleans, is an outdoor copy of Emmanuel Frémiet's equestrian statue Jeanne d'Arc (1874), installed in Portland, Oregon's Laurelhurst neighborhood, in the United States. The bronze sculpture, which depicts Joan of Arc, was donated to the city by Henry Waldo Coe, who saw Frémiet's original statue in Paris. Portland's copy arrived from France in 1924 and was dedicated on Memorial Day in 2015 in honor of the Doughboys of World War I..
The Jolly Toper. Author Name: Judith Leyster. . . The Jolly Toper is an oil painting by Judith Leyster in the collection of the Rijksmuseum that is on long term loan to the Frans Hals Museum since 1959. It was acquired by the museum as a painting by Frans Hals and was attributed to Leyster by the researcher Juliane Harms in 1927.. The Jolly Toper is an oil painting by Judith Leyster in the collection of the Rijksmuseum that is on long term loan to the Frans Hals Museum since 1959. It was acquired by the museum as a painting by Frans Hals and was attributed to Leyster by the researcher Juliane Harms in 1927..
Joseph's Tunic. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Joseph's Tunic is a 1630 painting by Diego Velázquez, now held in the museum of the Sacristía Mayor del Monasterio de San Lorenzo de El Escorial (Madrid, Spain). It was painted in the house of the Spanish ambassador in Rome and brought back to Spain with Apollo in the Forge of Vulcan.. Joseph's Tunic is a 1630 painting by Diego Velázquez, now held in the museum of the Sacristía Mayor del Monasterio de San Lorenzo de El Escorial (Madrid, Spain). It was painted in the house of the Spanish ambassador in Rome and brought back to Spain with Apollo in the Forge of Vulcan..
Jupiter and Antiope. Author Name: Antoine Watteau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Rococo. . Jupiter and Antiope (French: Jupiter et Antiope) is an oil painting by the French artist Antoine Watteau. It is also known as the Satyr and the Sleeping Nymph and was probably painted between 1714 and 1719. Intended to be placed over a doorway, today it hangs in the Louvre in Paris.. Jupiter and Antiope (French: Jupiter et Antiope) is an oil painting by the French artist Antoine Watteau. It is also known as the Satyr and the Sleeping Nymph and was probably painted between 1714 and 1719. Intended to be placed over a doorway, today it hangs in the Louvre in Paris..
Jupiter et Semele. Author Name: Gustave Moreau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Symbolism_(arts). . Jupiter et Semele (1894-95; English, Jupiter and Semele) is a painting by the French Symbolist artist Gustave Moreau (1826-1898). It depicts a moment from the classical myth of the mortal woman Semele, mother of the god Dionysus, and her lover, Jupiter, the king of the gods. She was treacherously advised by the goddess Juno, Jupiter’s wife, to ask him to appear to her in all his divine splendor. He obliged, but, in so doing, brought about her violent death by his divine thunder and lightning. The painting is a representation of “divinized physical love” and the overpowering experience that consumes Semele as the god appears in his supreme beauty which has been called “quite simply the most sumptuous expression imaginable of an orgasm”.. Jupiter et Semele (1894-95; English, Jupiter and Semele) is a painting by the French Symbolist artist Gustave Moreau (1826-1898). It depicts a moment from the classical myth of the mortal woman Semele, mother of the god Dionysus, and her lover, Jupiter, the king of the gods. She was treacherously advised by the goddess Juno, Jupiter’s wife, to ask him to appear to her in all his divine splendor. He obliged, but, in so doing, brought about her violent death by his divine thunder and lightning. The painting is a representation of “divinized physical love” and the overpowering experience that consumes Semele as the god appears in his supreme beauty which has been called “quite simply the most sumptuous expression imaginable of an orgasm”. Of this work, Moreau himself wrote, “Semele, penetrated by the divine effluence, regenerated and purified by this consecration, dies struck by lightning and with her dies the genius of terrestrial love, the genius with the goat hooves”..
Kazanie Skargi. Author Name: Jan Matejko. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/History_painting. . Kazanie Skargi (English: Skarga's Sermon) is a large oil painting by Jan Matejko, finished in 1864, now in the National Museum, Warsaw in Poland. It depicts a sermon on political matters by the Jesuit priest Piotr Skarga, a chief figure of the Counter Reformation in Poland, where he rebukes the Polish elite for neglecting the national interest.. Kazanie Skargi (English: Skarga's Sermon) is a large oil painting by Jan Matejko, finished in 1864, now in the National Museum, Warsaw in Poland. It depicts a sermon on political matters by the Jesuit priest Piotr Skarga, a chief figure of the Counter Reformation in Poland, where he rebukes the Polish elite for neglecting the national interest. Skarga's Sermon is among Matejko's most famous works, and like other historical paintings by Matejko includes several portraits of identifiable historical figures of the period depicted, as well as in this case a self-portrait of the artist in the figure of Skarga..
L'Absinthe. Author Name: Edgar Degas. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . L'Absinthe (English: The Absinthe Drinker or Glass of Absinthe) is a painting by Edgar Degas. Some original title translations are A sketch of a French Café, then Figures at Café, the title was finally changed in 1893 to L'Absinthe (the name the piece is known by today). It is now in the permanent collection of the Musée d'Orsay in Paris.. L'Absinthe (English: The Absinthe Drinker or Glass of Absinthe) is a painting by Edgar Degas. Some original title translations are A sketch of a French Café, then Figures at Café, the title was finally changed in 1893 to L'Absinthe (the name the piece is known by today). It is now in the permanent collection of the Musée d'Orsay in Paris..
L'Amour et Psyché, enfants. Author Name: William-Adolphe Bouguereau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . L'Amour et Psyché, enfants (translated: Cupid and Psyche as Children, 1890, Salon of 1890, No. 330) is one of William-Adolphe Bouguereau's most famous paintings. It is incorrectly known as Le Premier Baiser (The First Kiss, 1873).The painting is an oil on canvas, 60 x 71 cm (20 x 27 7/8 inches), and it is housed in a private collection. The subject of the painting stems from the story of Cupid and Psyche told by Apuleius in The Golden Ass (2nd century ).. L'Amour et Psyché, enfants (translated: Cupid and Psyche as Children, 1890, Salon of 1890, No. 330) is one of William-Adolphe Bouguereau's most famous paintings. It is incorrectly known as Le Premier Baiser (The First Kiss, 1873). The painting is an oil on canvas, 60 x 71 cm (20 x 27 7/8 inches), and it is housed in a private collection. The subject of the painting stems from the story of Cupid and Psyche told by Apuleius in The Golden Ass (2nd century )..
L'Arlésienne. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . L'Arlésienne, L'Arlésienne: Madame Ginoux, or Portrait of Madame Ginoux is the title given to a group of six similar paintings by Vincent van Gogh, painted in Arles, November 1888 (or later), and in  Saint-Rémy, February 1890. L'Arlésienne is pronounced 'lar lay zyen'; it means literally "the woman from Arles".. L'Arlésienne, L'Arlésienne: Madame Ginoux, or Portrait of Madame Ginoux is the title given to a group of six similar paintings by Vincent van Gogh, painted in Arles, November 1888 (or later), and in Saint-Rémy, February 1890. L'Arlésienne is pronounced 'lar lay zyen'; it means literally "the woman from Arles". The subject, Marie Jullian (or Julien), was born in Arles June 8, 1848 and died there August 2, 1911. She married Joseph-Michel Ginoux in 1866 and together they ran the Café de la Gare, 30 Place Lamartine, where Van Gogh lodged from May to mid-September 1888. He had the Yellow House in Arles furnished to settle there. Evidently until this time, Van Gogh's relations to M. and Mme. Ginoux had remained more or less commercial (the café is the subject of The Night Café), but Gauguin's arrival in Arles altered the situation. His courtship charmed the lady, then about 40 years of age, and in the first few days of November 1888 (November 1, or more probably November 2) Madame Ginoux agreed to have a portrait session for Paul Gauguin, and his friend Van Gogh. Within an hour, Gauguin produced a charcoal drawing while Vincent produced a full-scale painting, "knocked off in one hour"..
L'Asie. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . L'Asie (English title: Asia) is a painting by Henri Matisse. It is an oil on canvas painting from 1946.The painting is in the collection of and on public display at the Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth, Texas (USA).. L'Asie (English title: Asia) is a painting by Henri Matisse. It is an oil on canvas painting from 1946. The painting is in the collection of and on public display at the Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth, Texas (USA)..
L'Oiseau bleu. Author Name: Jean Metzinger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . L'Oiseau bleu (also known as The Blue Bird and Der Blaue Vogel) is a large oil painting created in 1912–1913 by the French artist and theorist Jean Metzinger (1883–1956); considered by Guillaume Apollinaire and André Salmon as a founder of Cubism, along with Georges Braque and Pablo Picasso. L'Oiseau bleu, one of Metzinger's most recognizable and frequently referenced works, was first exhibited in Paris at the Salon des Indépendants in the spring of 1913 (n. 2087), several months after the publication of the first (and only) Cubist manifesto, Du «Cubisme», written by Jean Metzinger and Albert Gleizes (1912). It was subsequently exhibited at the 1913 Erster Deutscher Herbstsalon in Berlin (titled Der blaue Vogel, n. 287). Apollinaire described L'Oiseau bleu as a 'very brilliant painting' an. L'Oiseau bleu (also known as The Blue Bird and Der Blaue Vogel) is a large oil painting created in 1912–1913 by the French artist and theorist Jean Metzinger (1883–1956); considered by Guillaume Apollinaire and André Salmon as a founder of Cubism, along with Georges Braque and Pablo Picasso. L'Oiseau bleu, one of Metzinger's most recognizable and frequently referenced works, was first exhibited in Paris at the Salon des Indépendants in the spring of 1913 (n. 2087), several months after the publication of the first (and only) Cubist manifesto, Du «Cubisme», written by Jean Metzinger and Albert Gleizes (1912). It was subsequently exhibited at the 1913 Erster Deutscher Herbstsalon in Berlin (titled Der blaue Vogel, n. 287). Apollinaire described L'Oiseau bleu as a 'very brilliant painting' and 'his most important work to date'. L'Oiseau bleu, acquired by the City of Paris in 1937, forms part of the permanent collection at the Musée d'Art Moderne de la Ville de Paris..
La Chasse. Author Name: Albert Gleizes. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_art. . La Chasse, also referred to as The Hunt, is a painting created in 1911 by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes. The work was exhibited at the 1911 Salon d'Automne (no. 610); Jack of Diamonds, Moscow, 1912; the Salon de la Société Normande de Peinture Moderne, Rouen, summer 1912; the Salon de la Section d'Or, Galerie La Boétie, 1912 (no. 37), Le Cubisme, Musée National d'Art Moderne, Paris, 1953 (no. 64 bis), and several major exhibitions during subsequent years.In 1913 the painting was reproduced in Les Peintres Cubistes, Méditations esthétiques by Guillaume Apollinaire.. La Chasse, also referred to as The Hunt, is a painting created in 1911 by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes. The work was exhibited at the 1911 Salon d'Automne (no. 610); Jack of Diamonds, Moscow, 1912; the Salon de la Société Normande de Peinture Moderne, Rouen, summer 1912; the Salon de la Section d'Or, Galerie La Boétie, 1912 (no. 37), Le Cubisme, Musée National d'Art Moderne, Paris, 1953 (no. 64 bis), and several major exhibitions during subsequent years. In 1913 the painting was reproduced in Les Peintres Cubistes, Méditations esthétiques by Guillaume Apollinaire. Executed in a highly dynamic Cubist style, with multiple faceted views, the work nevertheless retains recognizable elements relative to its subject matter..
La Danse. Author Name: William-Adolphe Bouguereau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . La Danse (English: The Dance) is a painting created by nineteenth century French artist William-Adolphe Bouguereau in 1856. The painting is currently held in the Musée d'Orsay in Paris.. La Danse (English: The Dance) is a painting created by nineteenth century French artist William-Adolphe Bouguereau in 1856. The painting is currently held in the Musée d'Orsay in Paris..
La Femme au Cheval. Author Name: Jean Metzinger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . La Femme au Cheval (also known as Woman with Horse and L'Écuyère) is a large oil painting created toward the end of 1911 by the French artist Jean Metzinger (1883–1956). The work was exhibited in Paris at the Salon des Indépendants (20 March–16 May) in 1912 and the Salon de la Section d'Or, 1912. The following year La Femme au Cheval was reproduced in The Cubist Painters, Aesthetic Meditations by Guillaume Apollinaire (1913).. La Femme au Cheval (also known as Woman with Horse and L'Écuyère) is a large oil painting created toward the end of 1911 by the French artist Jean Metzinger (1883–1956). The work was exhibited in Paris at the Salon des Indépendants (20 March–16 May) in 1912 and the Salon de la Section d'Or, 1912. The following year La Femme au Cheval was reproduced in The Cubist Painters, Aesthetic Meditations by Guillaume Apollinaire (1913). The artist has broken down the picture plane into facets, presenting multiple aspects of the subject simultaneously. This concept first pronounced by Metzinger in 1910—since considered a founding principle of Cubism—would soon find its way into the foundations of the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics; the fact that a complete description of one and the same subject may require diverse points of view which defy a unique description. The painting was owned by the poet Joseph Houot (known as Jacques Nayral). It was presumably bought by a Danish collector in 1918. The painting was subsequently sold at auction through art dealer Kai Grunth hos Winkel & Magnussen, auction no. 108, February 19, 1932, lot no. 119. Purchased by Danish physicist Niels Bohr. After his death Woman with Horse was sold by his widow Margrethe Bohr (through Ernest Bohr) to the Statens Museum for Kunst in Copenhagen. It is now in the Royal Collection of Paintings and Sculpture at the museum..
La Nymphe surprise. Author Name: Édouard Manet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . La Nymphe surprise, or Nymph Surprised, is a painting by the French impressionist painter Édouard Manet, created in 1861. The model was Suzanne, a pianist and his secret beloved for years, whom he married two years later. The painting is a key work in Manet's production, marking the beginning of a new period in his artistic career and generally in the history of modernism in French painting. It is in National Museum of Fine Arts in Buenos Aires and it is considered as one of the collection's highlights. Manet had special feelings for this painting, and La Nymphe surprise remained in the artist's possession his entire life, and there is evidence that points to the fact that, apart from the emotional significance it represented for the artist, Manet considered this painting as one of his mos. La Nymphe surprise, or Nymph Surprised, is a painting by the French impressionist painter Édouard Manet, created in 1861. The model was Suzanne, a pianist and his secret beloved for years, whom he married two years later. The painting is a key work in Manet's production, marking the beginning of a new period in his artistic career and generally in the history of modernism in French painting. It is in National Museum of Fine Arts in Buenos Aires and it is considered as one of the collection's highlights. Manet had special feelings for this painting, and La Nymphe surprise remained in the artist's possession his entire life, and there is evidence that points to the fact that, apart from the emotional significance it represented for the artist, Manet considered this painting as one of his most important works..
La Négresse. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . La Négresse (1952/1953) by Henri Matisse is a gouache découpée. During the early-to-mid-1940s, Matisse was in poor health. Eventually, by 1950, he stopped painting in favor of his paper cutouts. La Negresse is an example of Matisse's final body of works known as the cutouts. He initially created this work as a large wall piece.. La Négresse (1952/1953) by Henri Matisse is a gouache découpée. During the early-to-mid-1940s, Matisse was in poor health. Eventually, by 1950, he stopped painting in favor of his paper cutouts. La Negresse is an example of Matisse's final body of works known as the cutouts. He initially created this work as a large wall piece..
La Paloma. Author Name: Nonell, Isidre. . . La Paloma is a 1904 painting by a Catalan painter Isidre Nonell, which is exhibited at the National Art Museum of Catalonia.. La Paloma is a 1904 painting by a Catalan painter Isidre Nonell, which is exhibited at the National Art Museum of Catalonia..
La belle jardinière. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . La belle jardinière, also known as Madonna and Child with Saint John the Baptist, is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael.  It was commissioned by the Sienese patrician Fabrizio Sergardi and shows Mary, Christ and the young John the Baptist. It is currently in the Louvre Museum in Paris, France.This painting is one of the most famous Madonna portraits of Italian Renaissance painter, Raphael. Raphael studied the works of Leonardo da Vinci while in Florence and applied some of Leonardo's techniques to his own painting. Raphael's use of contrasting light and darks, and the relaxed, informal pose of the Madonna illustrates Leonardo's influence on La belle jardinière.. La belle jardinière, also known as Madonna and Child with Saint John the Baptist, is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael. It was commissioned by the Sienese patrician Fabrizio Sergardi and shows Mary, Christ and the young John the Baptist. It is currently in the Louvre Museum in Paris, France.This painting is one of the most famous Madonna portraits of Italian Renaissance painter, Raphael. Raphael studied the works of Leonardo da Vinci while in Florence and applied some of Leonardo's techniques to his own painting. Raphael's use of contrasting light and darks, and the relaxed, informal pose of the Madonna illustrates Leonardo's influence on La belle jardinière..
La donna gravida. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . La donna gravida (or simply La gravida; Italian for "The Pregnant Woman") is an oil on wood portrait by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael. It was painted between 1505 and 1506, during Raphael's stay in Florence, Italy. It is currently housed in the Palazzo Pitti in Florence.The portrait depicts a woman who is pregnant sitting with her left hand resting on her stomach. Paintings of pregnant women were unusual in the Renaissance period.. La donna gravida (or simply La gravida; Italian for "The Pregnant Woman") is an oil on wood portrait by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael. It was painted between 1505 and 1506, during Raphael's stay in Florence, Italy. It is currently housed in the Palazzo Pitti in Florence. The portrait depicts a woman who is pregnant sitting with her left hand resting on her stomach. Paintings of pregnant women were unusual in the Renaissance period..
The Theatre Box. Author Name: Pierre-Auguste Renoir. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . La Loge (The Theatre Box) is an 1874 oil painting by Pierre-Auguste Renoir. It is part of the collection at Courtauld Institute of Art in London.. La Loge (The Theatre Box) is an 1874 oil painting by Pierre-Auguste Renoir. It is part of the collection at Courtauld Institute of Art in London..
La rencontre, ou "Bonjour Monsieur Courbet". Author Name: Gustave Courbet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Meeting or "Bonjour, Monsieur Courbet" (French: La rencontre, ou "Bonjour Monsieur Courbet") is an 1854 painting by Gustave Courbet.The painting is traditionally interpreted as Courbet greeted by his patron Alfred Bruyas, his servant Calas, and his dog while traveling to Montpellier. The composition is based on the Wandering Jew. The Meeting was exhibited in Paris at the 1855 Exhibition Universelle, where critics ridiculed it as "Bonjour, Monsieur Courbet". Bruyas did not exhibit The Meeting until he donated it to the Musée Fabre in Montpellier in 1868.. The Meeting or "Bonjour, Monsieur Courbet" (French: La rencontre, ou "Bonjour Monsieur Courbet") is an 1854 painting by Gustave Courbet. The painting is traditionally interpreted as Courbet greeted by his patron Alfred Bruyas, his servant Calas, and his dog while traveling to Montpellier. The composition is based on the Wandering Jew. The Meeting was exhibited in Paris at the 1855 Exhibition Universelle, where critics ridiculed it as "Bonjour, Monsieur Courbet". Bruyas did not exhibit The Meeting until he donated it to the Musée Fabre in Montpellier in 1868..
La velata. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . La velata, or La donna velata ("The woman with the veil"), is one of the most famous portraits by the Italian Renaissance painter Raphael.[citation needed]The subject of the painting appears in another portrait, La Fornarina, and is traditionally identified as the fornarina (bakeress) Margherita Luti, Raphael's Roman mistress.One of Raphael's distinctions is his attention to the clothing of the subjects of his portraits, this one depicting opulence.. La velata, or La donna velata ("The woman with the veil"), is one of the most famous portraits by the Italian Renaissance painter Raphael.[citation needed] The subject of the painting appears in another portrait, La Fornarina, and is traditionally identified as the fornarina (bakeress) Margherita Luti, Raphael's Roman mistress. One of Raphael's distinctions is his attention to the clothing of the subjects of his portraits, this one depicting opulence..
Lady Agnew of Lochnaw. Author Name: John Singer Sargent. . . Lady Agnew of Lochnaw is an oil on canvas portrait painting of Lady Gertrude Agnew, the wife of Sir Andrew Agnew, 9th Baronet. The painting was commissioned in 1892 and completed in that year by the American portrait artist John Singer Sargent. It measures at 127 × 101 cm (50.0 × 39.8 in) and is owned by the Scottish National Gallery in Edinburgh, Scotland. The museum acquired it through the Cowan Smith Bequest Fund in 1925.. Lady Agnew of Lochnaw is an oil on canvas portrait painting of Lady Gertrude Agnew, the wife of Sir Andrew Agnew, 9th Baronet. The painting was commissioned in 1892 and completed in that year by the American portrait artist John Singer Sargent. It measures at 127 × 101 cm (50.0 × 39.8 in) and is owned by the Scottish National Gallery in Edinburgh, Scotland. The museum acquired it through the Cowan Smith Bequest Fund in 1925..
The Lamentation over the Dead Christ. Author Name: Andrea Mantegna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Lamentation of Christ (also known as the Lamentation over the Dead Christ, or the Dead Christ and other variants) is a painting of about 1480 by the Italian Renaissance artist Andrea Mantegna. While the dating of the piece is debated, it was completed between 1475 and 1501, probably in the early 1480s. It portrays the body Christ supine on a marble slab. He is watched over by the Virgin Mary and Saint John weeping for his death.. The Lamentation of Christ (also known as the Lamentation over the Dead Christ, or the Dead Christ and other variants) is a painting of about 1480 by the Italian Renaissance artist Andrea Mantegna. While the dating of the piece is debated, it was completed between 1475 and 1501, probably in the early 1480s. It portrays the body Christ supine on a marble slab. He is watched over by the Virgin Mary and Saint John weeping for his death. The theme of the Lamentation of Christ is common in medieval and Renaissance art, although this treatment, dating back to a subject known as the Anointing of Christ is unusual for the period. Most Lamentations show much more contact between the mourners and the body. Rich contrasts of light and shadow abound, infused by a profound sense of pathos. The realism and tragedy of the scene are enhanced by the violent perspective, which foreshortens and dramatizes the recumbent figure, stressing the anatomical details: in particular, Christ's thorax. The holes in Christ's hands and feet, as well as the faces of the two mourners, are portrayed without any concession to idealism or rhetoric. The sharply drawn drapery which covers the corpse contributes to the dramatic effect. The composition places the central focus of the image on Christ's genitals - an emphasis often found in figures of Jesus, especially as an infant, in this period, which has been related to a theological emphasis on the Humanity of Jesus by Leo Steinberg and others. Mantegna presented both a harrowing study of a strongly foreshortened cadaver and an intensely poignant depiction of a biblical tragedy. This painting is one of many examples of the artist's mastery of perspective. At first glance, the painting seems to display an exact perspective. However, careful scrutiny reveals that Mantegna reduced the size of the figure's feet, which, as he must have known, would cover much of the body if properly represented. Mantegna probably made this painting for his personal funerary chapel. It was found by his sons in his studio after his death and sold off to pay debts. The painting is now in the Pinacoteca di Brera of Milan, Italy..
Landscape with Cows and Camel. Author Name: August Macke. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Expressionism. . Landscape with Cows and Camel (German: Landschaft mit Kühen und Kamel) is a 1914 color on canvas painting by German Expressionist painter August Macke. It is drawn on Orphism style. It is now housed at Kunsthaus Zürich, Zürich.. Landscape with Cows and Camel (German: Landschaft mit Kühen und Kamel) is a 1914 color on canvas painting by German Expressionist painter August Macke. It is drawn on Orphism style. It is now housed at Kunsthaus Zürich, Zürich..
Landscape with Psyche Outside the Palace of Cupid. Author Name: Claude Lorrain. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Landscape with Psyche Outside the Palace of Cupid, or The Enchanted Castle, 1664, is a painting, oil on canvas, by Claude Lorrain in the National Gallery, London. It was commissioned by Lorenzo Onofrio Colonna, a Roman aristocrat. Its subject is taken from The Golden Ass (IV-VI), by Apuleius – the love story of Psyche the soul, and Cupid the god of love. It is not clear if Psyche sits in front of Cupid's castle before she meets him, or after he has abandoned her.. Landscape with Psyche Outside the Palace of Cupid, or The Enchanted Castle, 1664, is a painting, oil on canvas, by Claude Lorrain in the National Gallery, London. It was commissioned by Lorenzo Onofrio Colonna, a Roman aristocrat. Its subject is taken from The Golden Ass (IV-VI), by Apuleius – the love story of Psyche the soul, and Cupid the god of love. It is not clear if Psyche sits in front of Cupid's castle before she meets him, or after he has abandoned her. It is sometimes thought – it is disputed – to have inspired the lines – Charm'd magic casements, opening on the foam/Of perilous seas, in faery lands forlorn , – in John Keats's Ode to a Nightingale. Keats was fascinated by the picture..
Landscape with the Ashes of Phocion. Author Name: Nicolas Poussin. . Author Movement: Baroque. . Landscape with the Ashes of Phocion is a 1648 painting, also known as Landscape with the Ashes of Phocion (Collected by His Widow) and The Ashes of Phocion Collected by his Widow, by French artist Nicolas Poussin. Phocion was an Athenian statesman from the 4th century BC.The same year Poussin painted a companion piece to Landscape with the Ashes of Phocion, The Funeral of Phocion, in three versions.. Landscape with the Ashes of Phocion is a 1648 painting, also known as Landscape with the Ashes of Phocion (Collected by His Widow) and The Ashes of Phocion Collected by his Widow, by French artist Nicolas Poussin. Phocion was an Athenian statesman from the 4th century BC. " It is a picture about exile. Phocion, an Athenian general, was falsely condemned and executed, and his unburied corpse banished, and taken to the outskirts of Megara where it was burnt. At the very front his faithful widow gathers up his ashes. Her servant keeps look out. And the outcasts are placed directly below the mighty nucleus of temple-rock-cloud. But nothing in the scene indicates that the civilisation from which they're excluded is itself evil, corrupt or doomed, that they're well out of it. No, their exile from the good life is sheer tragedy. The majestic symphony of the city continues undiminished." The painting is housed at the Walker Art Gallery, part of the National Museums Liverpool, England. The same year Poussin painted a companion piece to Landscape with the Ashes of Phocion, The Funeral of Phocion, in three versions..
Laocoön. Author Name: El Greco. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . The Laocoön is an oil painting created between 1610 and 1614 by renowned Greek artist and Spanish Renaissance master Doménikos Theotokópoulos, known as El Greco ("The Greek"). It is part of a collection at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C... The Laocoön is an oil painting created between 1610 and 1614 by renowned Greek artist and Spanish Renaissance master Doménikos Theotokópoulos, known as El Greco ("The Greek"). It is part of a collection at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C.. The painting depicts the Greek and Roman mythological story of the deaths of Laocoön, a Trojan priest of Poseidon, and his two sons Antiphantes and Thymbraeus. Laocoön and his sons were strangled by sea serpents, a punishment sent by the gods after Laocoön attempted to warn his countrymen about the Trojan horse. Although inspired by the recently discovered monumental Hellenistic sculpture Laocoön and His Sons in Rome, Laocoön is a product of Mannerism, an artistic movement originating in Italy during the 16th century that countered the artistic ideals of the Renaissance. El Greco’s painting deliberately breaks away from the balance and harmony of Renaissance art with its strong emotional atmosphere and distorted figures..
Large Interior Form. Author Name: Henry Moore. . Author Movement: Bronze Sculpture, Modernism. . Large Interior Form, 1953-54 is a sculpture by Henry Moore.. Large Interior Form, 1953-54 is a sculpture by Henry Moore..
Las Virgenes Cristianas Expuestas al Populacho. Author Name: Félix Resurrección Hidalgo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Las Virgenes Cristianas Expuestas al Populacho or The Christian Virgins Exposed to the Populace is a famous 1884 history painting by Filipino painter, reformist, and propagandist Félix Resurrección Hidalgo. The painting is alternately known as The Christian Virgins Exposed to the Rabble, Jovenes Cristianas Expuestas al Populacho (Christian Maidens Exposed to the Populace), Christian Virgins Presented to the Populace, The Christian Virgins Being Exposed to the Populace, and Christian Virgins Exposed to the Mob.. Las Virgenes Cristianas Expuestas al Populacho or The Christian Virgins Exposed to the Populace is a famous 1884 history painting by Filipino painter, reformist, and propagandist Félix Resurrección Hidalgo. The painting is alternately known as The Christian Virgins Exposed to the Rabble, Jovenes Cristianas Expuestas al Populacho (Christian Maidens Exposed to the Populace), Christian Virgins Presented to the Populace, The Christian Virgins Being Exposed to the Populace, and Christian Virgins Exposed to the Mob. The painting was a silver medalist (ninth silver medal award among forty-five) during the 1884 Exposicion General de Bellas Artes in Madrid, Spain, also known as the Madrid Exposition. According to Raquel A.G. Reyes, Hidalgo's winning the silver medal for the painting was a landmark achievement that proved the ability of Filipinos to match the work of Spaniards and laid claim to Filipino participation in European culture. Regarded as one of the national treasures of the Philippines, a copy of the painting is currently housed at the Philippine's Metropolitan Museum of Manila and a part of the art collection of the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (Central Bank of the Philippines). The original was destroyed in a fire at the University of Valladolid in Spain..
Last Words of the Emperor Marcus Aurelius. Author Name: Eugène Delacroix. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . The Last Words of the Emperor Marcus Aurelius is an 1844 painting by the French artist Eugène Delacroix, now in the Museum of Fine Arts of Lyon. A preliminary sketch of the painting that was given to Delacroix's student Louis de Planet is also kept in the museum.. The Last Words of the Emperor Marcus Aurelius is an 1844 painting by the French artist Eugène Delacroix, now in the Museum of Fine Arts of Lyon. A preliminary sketch of the painting that was given to Delacroix's student Louis de Planet is also kept in the museum..
Laughing Cavalier. Author Name: Frans Hals. . . The Laughing Cavalier (1624) is a portrait by the Dutch Golden Age painter Frans Hals in the Wallace Collection in London, which has been described as "one of the most brilliant of all Baroque portraits". The title is an invention of the Victorian public and press, dating from its exhibition in the opening display at the Bethnal Green Museum in 1872–75, just after its arrival in England, after which it was regularly reproduced as a print, and became among of the best known old master paintings in Britain. The unknown subject is in fact not laughing, but can be said to have an enigmatic smile, much amplified by his upturned moustache.. The Laughing Cavalier (1624) is a portrait by the Dutch Golden Age painter Frans Hals in the Wallace Collection in London, which has been described as "one of the most brilliant of all Baroque portraits". The title is an invention of the Victorian public and press, dating from its exhibition in the opening display at the Bethnal Green Museum in 1872–75, just after its arrival in England, after which it was regularly reproduced as a print, and became among of the best known old master paintings in Britain. The unknown subject is in fact not laughing, but can be said to have an enigmatic smile, much amplified by his upturned moustache..
Le Boulevard de  Montmartre, Matinée de Printemps. Author Name: Camille Pissarro. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Le Boulevard de Montmartre, Matinée de Printemps is an oil on canvas painting by the French artist Camille Pissarro that he executed in 1897.By 1923 it was in the collection of the German industrialist and Holocaust victim Max Silberberg (de). Silberberg was obliged by the ruling Nazi regime to dispose of the work in a  forced sale in 1935. It was restituted to his family in 2000 and placed on loan with the Israel Museum until 2013. On 5 February 2014 it was auctioned at Sotheby's, London, for £19,682,500, double its pre-sale estimate.. Le Boulevard de Montmartre, Matinée de Printemps is an oil on canvas painting by the French artist Camille Pissarro that he executed in 1897. By 1923 it was in the collection of the German industrialist and Holocaust victim Max Silberberg (de). Silberberg was obliged by the ruling Nazi regime to dispose of the work in a forced sale in 1935. It was restituted to his family in 2000 and placed on loan with the Israel Museum until 2013. On 5 February 2014 it was auctioned at Sotheby's, London, for £19,682,500, double its pre-sale estimate..
Le Chahut. Author Name: Georges Seurat. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neo-impressionism. . Le Chahut (English: The Can-can) is a Neo-Impressionist painting by Georges Seurat, dated 1889-90. It was first exhibited at the 1890 Salon de la Société des Artistes Indépendants (titled Chahut, cat. no. 726) in Paris, where it eclipsed other works. Chahut became the prime target of art critics, and was widely discussed among Symbolist critics.The painting—representing a quadrille at the Moulin Rouge—influenced the Fauves, Cubists, Futurists and Orphists.. Le Chahut (English: The Can-can) is a Neo-Impressionist painting by Georges Seurat, dated 1889-90. It was first exhibited at the 1890 Salon de la Société des Artistes Indépendants (titled Chahut, cat. no. 726) in Paris, where it eclipsed other works. Chahut became the prime target of art critics, and was widely discussed among Symbolist critics. The painting—representing a quadrille at the Moulin Rouge—influenced the Fauves, Cubists, Futurists and Orphists. Formerly in the collection of French Symbolist poet and art critic Gustave Kahn, Chahut is located at the Kröller-Müller Museum in Otterlo, Netherlands..
Le Moulin de la Galette. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Le Moulin de la Galette is the subject and title of several paintings made by Vincent van Gogh in 1886 of a windmill. The Moulin de la Galette was near Van Gogh's apartment with his brother, Theo in Montmartre. The owners of the windmill maximized the view on a butte overlooking Paris, creating a terrace for viewing and a dance hall for entertainment. The windmill paintings are a subset of paintings from Montmartre (Van Gogh series).. Le Moulin de la Galette is the subject and title of several paintings made by Vincent van Gogh in 1886 of a windmill. The Moulin de la Galette was near Van Gogh's apartment with his brother, Theo in Montmartre. The owners of the windmill maximized the view on a butte overlooking Paris, creating a terrace for viewing and a dance hall for entertainment. The windmill paintings are a subset of paintings from Montmartre (Van Gogh series)..
Le Rêve Transformé. Author Name: Giorgio de Chirico. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Metaphysical_art. . Le Rêve Transformé (in English, The Transformed Dream) is a 1913 painting by the Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio De Chirico. This work contains the classic De Chirico's images of an empty urban scene at late evening with a ghostly train on the horizon. In this case in the foreground is an arrangement of bananas, pineapples and a Greek sculpture.. Le Rêve Transformé (in English, The Transformed Dream) is a 1913 painting by the Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio De Chirico. This work contains the classic De Chirico's images of an empty urban scene at late evening with a ghostly train on the horizon. In this case in the foreground is an arrangement of bananas, pineapples and a Greek sculpture..
Leonidas at Thermopylae. Author Name: Jacques-Louis David. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . Leonidas at Thermopylae is an 1814 painting by Jacques-Louis David now on show at the Louvre. It shows the Spartan king Leonidas prior to the Battle of Thermopylae. David's pupil Georges Rouget collaborated on it.. Leonidas at Thermopylae is an 1814 painting by Jacques-Louis David now on show at the Louvre. It shows the Spartan king Leonidas prior to the Battle of Thermopylae. David's pupil Georges Rouget collaborated on it..
Les Arènes. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Les Arènes is a painting by Vincent van Gogh executed in Arles, in November or December 1888, during the period of time when Paul Gauguin was living with him in The Yellow House. The bullfight season in Arles that year started on Easter Sunday 1 April and ended on 21 October. Van Gogh's painting is therefore not a study from nature but done from memory. Gauguin encouraged Van Gogh to work in the studio in this manner. The painting may not be finished as the paint is very thinly applied, and patches of bare jute show through in places.. Les Arènes is a painting by Vincent van Gogh executed in Arles, in November or December 1888, during the period of time when Paul Gauguin was living with him in The Yellow House. The bullfight season in Arles that year started on Easter Sunday 1 April and ended on 21 October. Van Gogh's painting is therefore not a study from nature but done from memory. Gauguin encouraged Van Gogh to work in the studio in this manner. The painting may not be finished as the paint is very thinly applied, and patches of bare jute show through in places. It seems that members of the Roulin Family are depicted in this portrait/, and the woman in Arlésienne costume has the profile of Madame Ginoux. A matter of weeks after painting this canvas, at Christmas 1888, Van Gogh cut off part of his own ear. One of the many theories about this notorious incident is that the bullfights (or "bull games" as they are called in Arles) made a deep impression on Van Gogh, in particular the custom of severing one ear of a defeated bull. The victorious matador circles the arena displaying this prize to the crowd, before presenting it to a lady of his choice. There is some doubt as to whether the bulls were killed in this fashion in Arles in Van Gogh's time..
Football Players. Author Name: Albert Gleizes. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_art. . Les Joueurs de football, also referred to as Football Players, is a 1912-13 painting by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes. The work was exhibited at the Salon des Indépendants, Paris, March–May 1913 (no. 1293). September through December 1913 the painting was exhibited at Erster Deutscher Herbstsalon, Berlin (no. 147). The work was featured at Galeries Dalmau in Barcelona, 29 November – 12 December 1916 (no. 31), Gleizes' first one-person show. Stylistically Gleizes' Football Players exemplifies the principle of mobile perspective laid out in Du "Cubisme", written by himself and French painter Jean Metzinger. Guillaume Apollinaire wrote about Les Joueurs de football in an article titled Le Salon des indépendants, published in L'Intransigeant, 18 mars 1913, and again in . Les Joueurs de football, also referred to as Football Players, is a 1912-13 painting by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes. The work was exhibited at the Salon des Indépendants, Paris, March–May 1913 (no. 1293). September through December 1913 the painting was exhibited at Erster Deutscher Herbstsalon, Berlin (no. 147). The work was featured at Galeries Dalmau in Barcelona, 29 November – 12 December 1916 (no. 31), Gleizes' first one-person show. Stylistically Gleizes' Football Players exemplifies the principle of mobile perspective laid out in Du "Cubisme", written by himself and French painter Jean Metzinger. Guillaume Apollinaire wrote about Les Joueurs de football in an article titled Le Salon des indépendants, published in L'Intransigeant, 18 mars 1913, and again in A travers le Salon des indépendants, published in Montjoie! Numéro Spécial, 18 mars 1913. Les Joueurs de football was left by the artist at Galeries Dalmau in 1916. Titled Jugadors de Futbol, the painting was reproduced in the avant-garde Catalan magazine L'Amic de les arts, November 1926. The caption included the inscription Collection Joseph Dalmau. It was purchased from the Dalmau family between 1953 and 1955 by Stephen Hahn and (); sold in 1955 to Nelson Aldrich Rockefeller, New York. Subsequently the work was sold to Marlborough-Gerson Gallery, New York, and purchased May 1970 by the National Gallery of Art (NGA), Washington D.C..
Les Trois Grâces. Author Name: Niki de Saint Phalle. . . Les Trois Grâces is a set of three public artworks by French sculptor Niki de Saint Phalle. The Three Graces are part of the National Museum of Women in the Arts New York Avenue Sculpture Project.. Les Trois Grâces is a set of three public artworks by French sculptor Niki de Saint Phalle. The Three Graces are part of the National Museum of Women in the Arts New York Avenue Sculpture Project..
Levitated Mass. Author Name: Michael Heizer. . . Levitated Mass is a 2012 large-scale sculpture by Michael Heizer on the campus of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. The installation consists of a 340-ton boulder affixed above a concrete trench through which visitors may walk. The nature, expense and scale of the installation made it an instant topic of discussion within the art world.The piece is open to the public during museum hours and does not require museum admission.. Levitated Mass is a 2012 large-scale sculpture by Michael Heizer on the campus of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. The installation consists of a 340-ton boulder affixed above a concrete trench through which visitors may walk. The nature, expense and scale of the installation made it an instant topic of discussion within the art world. The piece is open to the public during museum hours and does not require museum admission..
Life Underground. Author Name: Tom Otterness. . . Life Underground (2001) is a permanent public artwork created by American sculptor Tom Otterness for the 14th Street – Eighth Avenue station (A C E L trains) of the New York City Subway. It was commissioned by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's Arts for Transit program for US$200,000 — one percent of the station's reconstruction budget. This program has commissioned more than 170 permanent works of art for public transportation facilities the MTA owns and operates. This work is one of the most popular artworks in the subway system.. Life Underground (2001) is a permanent public artwork created by American sculptor Tom Otterness for the 14th Street – Eighth Avenue station (A C E L trains) of the New York City Subway. It was commissioned by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's Arts for Transit program for US$200,000 — one percent of the station's reconstruction budget. This program has commissioned more than 170 permanent works of art for public transportation facilities the MTA owns and operates. This work is one of the most popular artworks in the subway system. The installation is a series of whimsical miniature bronze sculptures depicting cartoon like characters showing people and animals in various situations, and additional abstract sculptures, which are dispersed throughout the station platforms and passageways. Otterness said the subject of the work is "the impossibility of understanding life in New York" and describes the arrangement of the individual pieces as being “scattered in little surprises.” Art critic Olympia Lambert wrote that "the lovable bronze characters installed there are joined together by a common theme of implied criminality mixed with an undercurrent of social anarchy," but labeled them as "too cute", saying that this "undercuts the work's more critical edge." Many of the figures have moneybag heads, and Otterness credits 19th century political cartoonist Thomas Nast's depiction of Boss Tweed and the corruption of Tammany Hall that was ongoing at the time of the subway's initial construction as his inspiration for these. One of the larger pieces depicts a sewer alligator, as described by reporter Michael Rundle: "There is a bronze alligator on the Eighth Avenue and 14th Street subway platform, wearing a suit and tie. A 10-inch (250 mm)-high bronze man — also wearing a suit and tie — is struggling to escape his powerful jaws. Watching the scene, aside from throngs of L train riders, is another 10-inch (250 mm) figure. He stands beside his stricken friend, hands clasped behind his back, as if to say: 'I told you not to get so close'.” Otterness' sculpture has been praised for its appeal to all ages. The New York Times published a 2003 account describing the interaction of a 4-year old boy with the sewer alligator. After jumping on the alligator's head and trying to wrestle the little man from his bronze jaws, the observer notes that the boy, "about to give up, he kicked the alligator, his foot connecting solidly with the bronze head. Surprise spread across his face as he ran away, crying, 'Mom, it tried to bite me!'." Otterness became so obsessed with this project, that he delivered more than four times the amount of artwork he was originally commissioned to produce. His wife finally made him end expansion of the collection by imploring him to stop "giving away our daughter's whole inheritance". The complete series encompasses more than 100 individual pieces. Some of the individual pieces were put on public display in 1996 on the southeast corner of Central Park at Fifth Avenue, and then in Battery Park City in downtown Manhattan in 1997, to get public reaction prior to its installation originally scheduled for 1998. Approximately 25 of the pieces were finally installed at the end of 2000. with the balance installed in the following years. The entire project took 10 years from commissioning to the final completion of the installation..
Lilacs in a Window. Author Name: Mary Cassatt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Lilacs in a Window is a painting by the American painter, printmaker, pastelist, and connoisseur Mary Cassatt. It is one of the few still-lifes she executed. It was originally owned by the Parisian art collector Moyse Dreyfus. Cassatt had been introduced to him by her Impressionist friends, and he became a friend and early patron. Cassatt included a portrait of him, Mr. Moyse Dreyfus, in her show at the Fourth Impressionist Exhibition of 1879.. Lilacs in a Window is a painting by the American painter, printmaker, pastelist, and connoisseur Mary Cassatt. It is one of the few still-lifes she executed. It was originally owned by the Parisian art collector Moyse Dreyfus. Cassatt had been introduced to him by her Impressionist friends, and he became a friend and early patron. Cassatt included a portrait of him, Mr. Moyse Dreyfus, in her show at the Fourth Impressionist Exhibition of 1879..
Lime Green Icicle Tower. Author Name: Dale Chihuly. . . Lime Green Icicle Tower is a 2011 glass and steel sculpture by American artist Dale Chihuly. Housed in the Museum of Fine Arts (MFA) in Boston, Massachusetts, it has been on display in the Ruth and Carl J. Shapiro Family Courtyard since the 2011 exhibit "Chihuly: Through the Looking Glass". The sculpture proved so popular during the exhibit that the museum launched a fundraising campaign to purchase the piece.. Lime Green Icicle Tower is a 2011 glass and steel sculpture by American artist Dale Chihuly. Housed in the Museum of Fine Arts (MFA) in Boston, Massachusetts, it has been on display in the Ruth and Carl J. Shapiro Family Courtyard since the 2011 exhibit "Chihuly: Through the Looking Glass". The sculpture proved so popular during the exhibit that the museum launched a fundraising campaign to purchase the piece..
Little Girl in a Blue Armchair. Author Name: Mary Cassatt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Little Girl in a Blue Armchair (French: Petite fille dans un fauteuil bleu) is an 1878 oil painting by the American painter, printmaker, pastelist, and connoisseur Mary Cassatt. It is in the collection of the National Gallery of Art, Washington D.C. Edgar Degas made some changes in the painting.. Little Girl in a Blue Armchair (French: Petite fille dans un fauteuil bleu) is an 1878 oil painting by the American painter, printmaker, pastelist, and connoisseur Mary Cassatt. It is in the collection of the National Gallery of Art, Washington D.C. Edgar Degas made some changes in the painting..
Little Machine Constructed by Minimax Dadamax in Person. Author Name: Max Ernst. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dada. . Little Machine Constructed by Minimax Dadamax in Person (Von minimax dadamax selbst konstruiertes maschinchen) (1919–20) is a mixed-media work of art by the German dadaist/surrealist Max Ernst.This is probably the most famous example of a series of Ernst’s works that were based on diagrams of scientific instruments. This work began by creating print reproductions of these diagrams. They were then colored and textured with a combination of watercolor, gouache and pencil and ink frottage. Frottage is a technique created by Ernst that involves creating rubbings of different textured surfaces like wood and textiles to give the work a three-dimensional appearance.. Little Machine Constructed by Minimax Dadamax in Person (Von minimax dadamax selbst konstruiertes maschinchen) (1919–20) is a mixed-media work of art by the German dadaist/surrealist Max Ernst. This is probably the most famous example of a series of Ernst’s works that were based on diagrams of scientific instruments. This work began by creating print reproductions of these diagrams. They were then colored and textured with a combination of watercolor, gouache and pencil and ink frottage. Frottage is a technique created by Ernst that involves creating rubbings of different textured surfaces like wood and textiles to give the work a three-dimensional appearance. This work also displays Ernst’s interest in typography. Many of the shapes in the machine can be seen as letters. At the bottom is an inscription that reads "Little machine constructed by Minimax Dadamax in person for fearless pollination of female suckers at the beginning of the change of life and for other such fearless functions.".
London Pride. Author Name: Frank Dobson. . . London Pride is a sculpture by the British artist Frank Dobson located on Queen's Walk on London's South Bank. The sculpture was given Grade II listed status in January 2016. The sculpture depicts two nude women, it sits on a slate platform, with an inscription carved by David Kindersley in front of the piece that reads:. London Pride is a sculpture by the British artist Frank Dobson located on Queen's Walk on London's South Bank. The sculpture was given Grade II listed status in January 2016. The sculpture depicts two nude women, it sits on a slate platform, with an inscription carved by David Kindersley in front of the piece that reads:.
Lost Illusions. Author Name: Charles Gleyre. . . Lost Illusions is a painting by Charles Gleyre and his student Leon Dussart, commissioned by William Thompson Walters in 1865.. Lost Illusions is a painting by Charles Gleyre and his student Leon Dussart, commissioned by William Thompson Walters in 1865..
Lost on the Grand Banks. Author Name: Winslow Homer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Lost on the Grand Banks (1885) is one of several paintings by the American painter Winslow Homer (1836–1910) on marine subjects. Together with The Herring Net and The Fog Warning, painted the same year, it depicts the hard lives of North Atlantic fishermen in Prouts Neck, Maine.The painting was bought in 1998 by Bill Gates, the then chairman of Microsoft. Gates reportedly paid $30 million for the seascape. At the time a record price for an American painting.. Lost on the Grand Banks (1885) is one of several paintings by the American painter Winslow Homer (1836–1910) on marine subjects. Together with The Herring Net and The Fog Warning, painted the same year, it depicts the hard lives of North Atlantic fishermen in Prouts Neck, Maine. The painting was bought in 1998 by Bill Gates, the then chairman of Microsoft. Gates reportedly paid $30 million for the seascape. At the time a record price for an American painting..
Love Locked Out. Author Name: Anna Lea Merritt. . . Love Locked Out is an oil painting by Anna Lea Merritt first exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1890 and which became the first painting by a woman artist acquired for the British national collection through the Chantrey Bequest.As a notable work by an American painter, Love Locked Out was included in the 1905 book Women Painters of the World.The title also became the title for the compilation of Anna Lea Merritt's memoires, published by Galina Gorokhoff in 1982.. Love Locked Out is an oil painting by Anna Lea Merritt first exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1890 and which became the first painting by a woman artist acquired for the British national collection through the Chantrey Bequest. The painting was well received when it was shown, though her first painting of a nude model Eve Overcome with Remorse had met with unfavourable reviews after winning a medal at the Royal Academy in 1885. This painting, which was created as a memorial to her husband, was received favourably, though it again featured a nude model and this time the model was male, a controversial subject for women artists at that time. She escaped censure by choosing a child, rather than an adult, such as her Eve had been. As a notable work by an American painter, Love Locked Out was included in the 1905 book Women Painters of the World. The title also became the title for the compilation of Anna Lea Merritt's memoires, published by Galina Gorokhoff in 1982..
Love and the Maiden. Author Name: John Roddam Spencer Stanhope. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Aestheticism. . Love and the Maiden is a tempera on canvas by English Pre-Raphaelite artist John Roddam Spencer Stanhope, executed in 1877 and currently housed at the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco.. Love and the Maiden is a tempera on canvas by English Pre-Raphaelite artist John Roddam Spencer Stanhope, executed in 1877 and currently housed at the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco..
Lucretia. Author Name: Paolo Veronese. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . Lucretia is a painting by Paolo Veronese from c. 1585.. Lucretia is a painting by Paolo Veronese from c. 1585..
Lunar Bird. Author Name: Joan Miró. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . Lunar Bird is an abstract bronze sculpture by Joan Miró. It was modeled in 1945, enlarged in 1966, and cast in 1967.It is in the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.. Lunar Bird is an abstract bronze sculpture by Joan Miró. It was modeled in 1945, enlarged in 1966, and cast in 1967. It is in the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden..
Luxe, Calme et Volupté. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . Luxe, Calme et Volupté is an oil painting by the French artist Henri Matisse. Both foundational in the oeuvre of Matisse and a pivotal work in the history of art, Luxe, Calme et Volupté is considered the starting point of Fauvism.. Luxe, Calme et Volupté is an oil painting by the French artist Henri Matisse. Both foundational in the oeuvre of Matisse and a pivotal work in the history of art, Luxe, Calme et Volupté is considered the starting point of Fauvism..
Mademoiselle Rose. Author Name: Eugène Delacroix. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . Mademoiselle Rose (also Seated Nude) is a painting by French Romantic artist Eugène Delacroix, regarded as the leader of the French Romantic school. This nude was painted before 1824, and is currently held and exhibited at the Louvre in Paris. Another is at the Alte Nationalgalerie in Berlin.. Mademoiselle Rose (also Seated Nude) is a painting by French Romantic artist Eugène Delacroix, regarded as the leader of the French Romantic school. This nude was painted before 1824, and is currently held and exhibited at the Louvre in Paris. Another is at the Alte Nationalgalerie in Berlin..
Madonna Litta. Author Name: Leonardo da Vinci. . . The Madonna Litta is a late 15th-century painting, traditionally attributed to Leonardo da Vinci, in the Hermitage Museum, Saint Petersburg. It depicts the Virgin Mary breastfeeding the Christ child, a devotional subject known as the Madonna lactans. The figures are set in a dark interior with two arched openings, as in Leonardo's earlier Madonna of the Carnation, and a mountainous landscape in aerial perspective can be seen beyond. In his left hand Christ holds a goldfinch, which is symbolic of his future Passion.. The Madonna Litta is a late 15th-century painting, traditionally attributed to Leonardo da Vinci, in the Hermitage Museum, Saint Petersburg. It depicts the Virgin Mary breastfeeding the Christ child, a devotional subject known as the Madonna lactans. The figures are set in a dark interior with two arched openings, as in Leonardo's earlier Madonna of the Carnation, and a mountainous landscape in aerial perspective can be seen beyond. In his left hand Christ holds a goldfinch, which is symbolic of his future Passion. Scholarly opinion is divided on the work's attribution, with some believing it to be the work of a pupil of Leonardo such as Giovanni Antonio Boltraffio or Marco d'Oggiono; the Hermitage Museum, however, considers the painting to be an autograph work by Leonardo. The painting takes its name from the House of Litta, a Milanese noble family in whose collection it was for much of the nineteenth century..
Madonna del Bordone. Author Name: Marcovaldo, Coppo Di. . . The Madonna del Bordone (‘The Madonna of the pilgrim's staff’) is a panel painting by the Italian painter Coppo di Marcovaldo, in the church of Santa Maria dei Servi in Siena, Italy.Signed and dated 1261, the work is the only certain attribution to the Florentine painter. It was painted after he had been taken prisoner in the Battle of Montaperti in 1260, when the Republic of Siena defeated the Republic of Florence. Coppo paid his ransom by executing the work.. The Madonna del Bordone (‘The Madonna of the pilgrim's staff’) is a panel painting by the Italian painter Coppo di Marcovaldo, in the church of Santa Maria dei Servi in Siena, Italy. Signed and dated 1261, the work is the only certain attribution to the Florentine painter. It was painted after he had been taken prisoner in the Battle of Montaperti in 1260, when the Republic of Siena defeated the Republic of Florence. Coppo paid his ransom by executing the work. It portrays the Madonna enthroned with a halo and two small angels on her sides. She is enthroned, and supports the blessing Child, who is holding the Book of the Law in his left hand and has a halo surrounded by a jewelled cross. The heads were painted in the following year by a local artist, who added a sfumato style influenced by that of Duccio di Buoninsegna, but different from Coppo's art. X-Ray analyses have shown the original heads to be characterized by Coppo's typical, rather sketchy manner of painting. Unlike the concentrated abstraction of contemporary works such as those by Margaritone d'Arezzo, in Coppo's Madonna the Child is looking in a tender way at his mother, a gesture aiming to humanize his divine status, but perhaps also to represent the love of the Child for the Catholic Church, symbolized by the Madonna. The posture of the two figures is typical of Byzantine painting of the subject..
Madonna del Parto. Author Name: Piero della Francesca. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . A Madonna del Parto ("Madonna of Parturition") is an iconic depiction of the Virgin Mary shown as pregnant, which was developed in Italy, mainly in Tuscany in the 14th century. Examples include works by Taddeo Gaddi, Bernardo Daddi and Nardo di Cione. The Madonna was portrayed standing, alone, often with a closed book on her belly, an allusion to the Incarnate Word. The works were associated with the devotions of pregnant women, praying for a safe delivery. Sometimes, as with a statue by Sansovino in the Basilica of Sant'Agostino in Rome, the depiction is of a Virgin and Child, but known as a Madonna del Parto because it was especially associated with devotions over pregnancy. Here the Virgin wears the Girdle of Thomas, a belt of knotted cloth cord that was a relic held in Prato Cathedral,. A Madonna del Parto ("Madonna of Parturition") is an iconic depiction of the Virgin Mary shown as pregnant, which was developed in Italy, mainly in Tuscany in the 14th century. Examples include works by Taddeo Gaddi, Bernardo Daddi and Nardo di Cione. The Madonna was portrayed standing, alone, often with a closed book on her belly, an allusion to the Incarnate Word. The works were associated with the devotions of pregnant women, praying for a safe delivery. Sometimes, as with a statue by Sansovino in the Basilica of Sant'Agostino in Rome, the depiction is of a Virgin and Child, but known as a Madonna del Parto because it was especially associated with devotions over pregnancy. Here the Virgin wears the Girdle of Thomas, a belt of knotted cloth cord that was a relic held in Prato Cathedral, which many depictions wear..
Madonna of the Goldfinch. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Madonna del cardellino or Madonna of the Goldfinch is a painting by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael, from c. 1505-1506. A 10-year restoration process was completed in 2008, after which the painting was returned to its home at the Uffizi in Florence. During the restoration, an antique copy replaced the painting in the gallery.. The Madonna del cardellino or Madonna of the Goldfinch is a painting by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael, from c. 1505-1506. A 10-year restoration process was completed in 2008, after which the painting was returned to its home at the Uffizi in Florence. During the restoration, an antique copy replaced the painting in the gallery..
Madonna dell'Impannata. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Madonna dell'Impannata is an oil on panel (158x125 cm) painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael. It has been preserved at the Palatine Gallery in Florence.. The Madonna dell'Impannata is an oil on panel (158x125 cm) painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael. It has been preserved at the Palatine Gallery in Florence..
Madonna in Glory with Seraphim. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Madonna in Glory with Seraphim is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli, executed c. 1469-1470. It is housed in Galleria degli Uffizi, Florence.Some panel paintings of the Madonna by Botticelli remain from the years around 1470 which are striking expressions of Botticelli's stylistic development. Two full figure pictures of the Madonna - the Madonna in Glory and the Madonna of the Rosegarden - are in the Uffizi. They represent monumental seated figures filling the entire picture.. Madonna in Glory with Seraphim is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli, executed c. 1469-1470. It is housed in Galleria degli Uffizi, Florence. Some panel paintings of the Madonna by Botticelli remain from the years around 1470 which are striking expressions of Botticelli's stylistic development. Two full figure pictures of the Madonna - the Madonna in Glory and the Madonna of the Rosegarden - are in the Uffizi. They represent monumental seated figures filling the entire picture. Mary is enthroned on clouds in a glory of seraphim. The Christ Child, with the cruciform nimbus, is looking towards the observer and raising his hand in blessing. Botticelli has succeeded in expressing the tensions in this theme with sensitivity: the mother, who is fully aware of the Passion her son will suffer, is holding him protectively in her arms..
Madonna of Humility. Author Name: Gentile da Fabriano. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/International_Gothic. . The Madonna of Humility is an tempera-on-panel painting by the Italian late medieval artist Gentile da Fabriano, dating from around 1420-1423 and housed in the Museo nazionale di San Matteo, Pisa.The work, once in the local Pious House of Misericordy, was commissioned in unknown circumstances, although its size suggests that it was destined to private devotion. It was perhaps ordered by cardinal Alemanno Adimari, archbishop of Pisa, who had his sepulchre in the Roman church of Santa Maria Nova decorated by Gentile (a lost work mentioned by late Renaissance art biographer Giorgio Vasari).. The Madonna of Humility is an tempera-on-panel painting by the Italian late medieval artist Gentile da Fabriano, dating from around 1420-1423 and housed in the Museo nazionale di San Matteo, Pisa. The work, once in the local Pious House of Misericordy, was commissioned in unknown circumstances, although its size suggests that it was destined to private devotion. It was perhaps ordered by cardinal Alemanno Adimari, archbishop of Pisa, who had his sepulchre in the Roman church of Santa Maria Nova decorated by Gentile (a lost work mentioned by late Renaissance art biographer Giorgio Vasari)..
Madonna of the Magnificat. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Madonna of the Magnificat, Italian: Madonna del Magnificat, is a painting of circular or tondo form by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli. It is now in the galleries of the Uffizi, in Florence.The work portrays the Virgin Mary crowned by two angels. She is writing the opening of the Magnificat on the right-hand page of a book; on the left page is part of the Benedictus. In her left hand she holds a pomegranate.. The Madonna of the Magnificat, Italian: Madonna del Magnificat, is a painting of circular or tondo form by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli. It is now in the galleries of the Uffizi, in Florence. The work portrays the Virgin Mary crowned by two angels. She is writing the opening of the Magnificat on the right-hand page of a book; on the left page is part of the Benedictus. In her left hand she holds a pomegranate..
Madonna with Saints John the Baptist and Donatus. Author Name: Andrea del Verrocchio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Madonna with the Saints John the Baptist and Donatus is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Andrea del Verrocchio, circa 1475-1483. It is housed in the Cathedral of Pistoia, Italy. The painting depicts the Virgin Mary, and Saints John the Baptist and Donatus of Fiesole.. The Madonna with the Saints John the Baptist and Donatus is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Andrea del Verrocchio, circa 1475-1483. It is housed in the Cathedral of Pistoia, Italy. The painting depicts the Virgin Mary, and Saints John the Baptist and Donatus of Fiesole..
Madras Rouge. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . Madras Rouge (The Red Madras Headress) is a painting by Henri Matisse from 1907. The woman depicted is the painter's wife, Amélie Noellie Parayre Matisse.The painting was illustrated in Gelett Burgess, The Wild Men of Paris, The Architectural Record, May 1910, New York.. Madras Rouge (The Red Madras Headress) is a painting by Henri Matisse from 1907. The woman depicted is the painter's wife, Amélie Noellie Parayre Matisse. The painting was illustrated in Gelett Burgess, The Wild Men of Paris, The Architectural Record, May 1910, New York..
Maman. Author Name: Louise Bourgeois. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Feminist_art. . Maman (1999) is a bronze, stainless steel, and marble sculpture by the artist Louise Bourgeois. The sculpture, which depicts a spider, is among the world's largest, measuring over 30 ft high and over 33 ft wide (927 x 891 x 1024 cm). It includes a sac containing 26 marble eggs and its abdomen and thorax are made of ribbed bronze. The title is the familiar French word for Mother. The sculpture was created in 1999 by Bourgeois as a part of her inaugural commission of The Unilever Series (2000), in the Turbine Hall at London's Tate Modern. This original was created in steel, with an edition of six subsequent castings in bronze.. Maman (1999) is a bronze, stainless steel, and marble sculpture by the artist Louise Bourgeois. The sculpture, which depicts a spider, is among the world's largest, measuring over 30 ft high and over 33 ft wide (927 x 891 x 1024 cm). It includes a sac containing 26 marble eggs and its abdomen and thorax are made of ribbed bronze. The title is the familiar French word for Mother. The sculpture was created in 1999 by Bourgeois as a part of her inaugural commission of The Unilever Series (2000), in the Turbine Hall at London's Tate Modern. This original was created in steel, with an edition of six subsequent castings in bronze..
Man Writing a Letter. Author Name: Gabriël Metsu. . . Man Writing a Letter is an oil painting on a wood panel by Gabriël Metsu made at the height of his career. It is assumed to be a pair with Woman Reading a Letter. The two genre paintings (together with the "Sick Child") are regarded as Metsu's artistic climax. Since 1987 they can be seen in the collection of the National Gallery of Ireland in Dublin.. Man Writing a Letter is an oil painting on a wood panel by Gabriël Metsu made at the height of his career. It is assumed to be a pair with Woman Reading a Letter. The two genre paintings (together with the "Sick Child") are regarded as Metsu's artistic climax. Since 1987 they can be seen in the collection of the National Gallery of Ireland in Dublin..
Man and Woman in Front of a Pile of Excrement. Author Name: Joan Miró. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . Man and Woman in Front of a Pile of Excrement (Homme et femme devant un tas d'excréments) is a 1935 oil painting on copper by Joan Miró.. Man and Woman in Front of a Pile of Excrement (Homme et femme devant un tas d'excréments) is a 1935 oil painting on copper by Joan Miró..
Man on a Balcony. Author Name: Albert Gleizes. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_art. . Man on a Balcony (also known as Portrait of Dr. Théo Morinaud and 'L'Homme au balcon), is a large oil painting created in 1912 by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes (1881–1953). The painting was exhibited in Paris at the Salon d'Automne of 1912 (no. 689). The Cubist contribution to the salon created a controversy in the French Parliament about the use of public funds to provide the venue for such 'barbaric art'. Gleizes was a founder of Cubism, and demonstrates the principles of the movement in this monumental painting (over six feet tall) with its projecting planes and fragmented lines. The large size of the painting reflects Gleizes's ambition to show it in the large annual salon exhibitions in Paris, where he was able with others of his entourage to bring Cubism to wi. Man on a Balcony (also known as Portrait of Dr. Théo Morinaud and 'L'Homme au balcon), is a large oil painting created in 1912 by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes (1881–1953). The painting was exhibited in Paris at the Salon d'Automne of 1912 (no. 689). The Cubist contribution to the salon created a controversy in the French Parliament about the use of public funds to provide the venue for such 'barbaric art'. Gleizes was a founder of Cubism, and demonstrates the principles of the movement in this monumental painting (over six feet tall) with its projecting planes and fragmented lines. The large size of the painting reflects Gleizes's ambition to show it in the large annual salon exhibitions in Paris, where he was able with others of his entourage to bring Cubism to wider audiences. In February 1913, Gleizes and other artists introduced the new style of modern art known as Cubism to an American audience at the Armory Show in New York City, Chicago and Boston. In addition to Man on a balcony (no. 196), Gleizes exhibited his 1910 painting Femme aux Phlox (Museum of Fine Arts, Houston). Man on a Balcony was reproduced in L'Excelsior, Au Salon d'Automne, Les Indépendants, 2 October 1912. It was then reproduced in Les Peintres Cubistes, Méditations Esthétiques, a collection of essays by Guillaume Apollinaire published in 1913 The painting was completed around the same time as Albert Gleizes co-authored with Jean Metzinger a major treatise titled Du "Cubisme" (the first and only manifesto on Cubism). Man on a Balcony was purchased at the 1913 Armory show by the lawyer, author, art critic, private art collector, and American proponent of Cubism Arthur Jerome Eddy for $540. Gleizes' Man on a Balcony was the frontispiece of Arthur Jerome Eddy's book Cubists and Post-Impressionism, March 1914. The painting later formed part of the Louise and Walter Conrad Arensberg Collection, 1950. It is currently in the permanent collection of the Philadelphia Museum of Art..
Man with a Glove. Author Name: Titian. . . The Man with a Glove is an oil-on-canvas portrait by the Italian Renaissance artist Titian, c. 1520. It is currently housed in the Musée du Louvre, Paris.. The Man with a Glove is an oil-on-canvas portrait by the Italian Renaissance artist Titian, c. 1520. It is currently housed in the Musée du Louvre, Paris..
Manfred on the Jungfrau. Author Name: Ford Madox Brown. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pre-Raphaelite_Brotherhood. . Manfred on the Jungfrau is an 1842 oil-on-canvas artwork by Ford Madox Brown. It is inspired by Act I Scene II of Lord Byron's famous dramatic poem Manfred, probably most particularly the following:The painting depicts the central character of the poem, Manfred, who is a noble and wealthy aristocrat, about to toss himself from the heights of the Jungfrau mountain. Manfred is, however, saved from death by a chamois hunter who happens upon him, and who is seen approaching in the background of the painting, clad in fur. The detail seen on Manfred's face shows his deep psychological agony, and the reason for his desire for suicide.. Manfred on the Jungfrau is an 1842 oil-on-canvas artwork by Ford Madox Brown. It is inspired by Act I Scene II of Lord Byron's famous dramatic poem Manfred, probably most particularly the following: The painting depicts the central character of the poem, Manfred, who is a noble and wealthy aristocrat, about to toss himself from the heights of the Jungfrau mountain. Manfred is, however, saved from death by a chamois hunter who happens upon him, and who is seen approaching in the background of the painting, clad in fur. The detail seen on Manfred's face shows his deep psychological agony, and the reason for his desire for suicide. In 1837, John Martin painted an artwork of the same name. Martin's version was a watercolour, and focused more on the Jungfrau mountain than on the detail of Manfred and the hunter..
Marriage à-la-mode: 2. The Tête à Tête. Author Name: William  Hogarth. . . The Tête à Tête is the second canvas in the series of six satirical paintings known as Marriage à-la-mode, painted by William Hogarth.. The Tête à Tête is the second canvas in the series of six satirical paintings known as Marriage à-la-mode, painted by William Hogarth..
Mars Being Disarmed by Venus. Author Name: Jacques-Louis David. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . Mars Being Disarmed by Venus is the last painting produced by the French artist Jacques-Louis David. He began it in 1822 (aged 73) during his exile in Brussels and completed it three years later, before dying in an accident in 1825. He sent it to an exhibition in Paris from his exile, knowing that by then Romanticism was ascendant in the Salon. In 2007 it was displayed in the main hall of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium in Brussels, close to the entrance.. Mars Being Disarmed by Venus is the last painting produced by the French artist Jacques-Louis David. He began it in 1822 (aged 73) during his exile in Brussels and completed it three years later, before dying in an accident in 1825. He sent it to an exhibition in Paris from his exile, knowing that by then Romanticism was ascendant in the Salon. In 2007 it was displayed in the main hall of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium in Brussels, close to the entrance. At over 3 m (10 ft) high it is an imposing work. Set before a temple floating in the clouds, Venus the goddess of love and her followers, the three Graces and Cupid, are shown taking away the weapons, helmet, shield and armour of Mars the god of war. He allows himself to be disarmed and gives in to Venus's charms. Most of David's models for it were figures involved in the Théâtre de la Monnaie: Venus was modelled by the actress Marie Lesueur, Cupid by Lucien Petipa, Mars by a subscriber or 'abonné', and one of the Graces by the Prince of Orange's mistress..
The Martyrdom of Saint Sebastian. Author Name: Antonio del Pollaiuolo. . . The Martyrdom of Saint Sebastian is a work by Piero del Pollaiuolo, commissioned by the Florentine Pucci family and now in the National Gallery, London.. The Martyrdom of Saint Sebastian is a work by Piero del Pollaiuolo, commissioned by the Florentine Pucci family and now in the National Gallery, London..
Matin à Villeneuve. Author Name: Biva, Henri. . Author Movement: Realism, Naturalism, Luminism. . Matin à Villeneuve, also known as Villeneuve-l'Etang, le matin and From Waters Edge, is a painting created circa 1905 in the Realist tradition with a strong Naturalist component by the French artist Henri Biva (1848–1929). This work was photographed and reproduced as a black and white postcard published for the occasion of the Salon of 1906 in Paris.. Matin à Villeneuve, also known as Villeneuve-l'Etang, le matin and From Waters Edge, is a painting created circa 1905 in the Realist tradition with a strong Naturalist component by the French artist Henri Biva (1848–1929). This work was photographed and reproduced as a black and white postcard published for the occasion of the Salon of 1906 in Paris..
Max Schmitt in a Single Scull. Author Name: Thomas Eakins. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Max Schmitt in a Single Scull (also known as The Champion Single Sculls or The Champion, Single Sculls) is an 1871 painting by Thomas Eakins in the permanent collection of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Set on the Schuylkill River in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, it celebrates the victory of Eakins's friend Max Schmitt in the October 5, 1870, single sculls competition.. Max Schmitt in a Single Scull (also known as The Champion Single Sculls or The Champion, Single Sculls) is an 1871 painting by Thomas Eakins in the permanent collection of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Set on the Schuylkill River in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, it celebrates the victory of Eakins's friend Max Schmitt in the October 5, 1870, single sculls competition..
Medusa. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Medusa is a marble sculpture of the eponymous character from the classical myth. It was executed by the Italian sculptor Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Its precise date of creation is unknown, but it is likely to have been executed in the 1630s. It was first documented in 1731 when presented to the Palazzo dei Conservatori in Rome, and is now part of the collections of the Capitoline Museums.. Medusa is a marble sculpture of the eponymous character from the classical myth. It was executed by the Italian sculptor Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Its precise date of creation is unknown, but it is likely to have been executed in the 1630s. It was first documented in 1731 when presented to the Palazzo dei Conservatori in Rome, and is now part of the collections of the Capitoline Museums..
The Merry Trio. Author Name: Judith Leyster. . . The Merry Trio is an oil painting by Judith Leyster in the Collection Noortman. It was considered a work by Frans Hals until 1903.. The Merry Trio is an oil painting by Judith Leyster in the Collection Noortman. It was considered a work by Frans Hals until 1903..
Metamorphosis of Narcissus. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Metamorphosis of Narcissus (1937) is an oil-on-canvas painting by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dalí. This painting is from Dalí's Paranoiac-critical period. According to Greek mythology, Narcissus fell in love with his own reflection in a pool. Unable to embrace the watery image, he pined away, and the gods immortalized him as a flower. Dalí completed this painting in 1937 on his long awaited return to Paris after having had great success in the United States.Dalí wrote the following poem, which accompanied the painting when it was initially exhibited:. Metamorphosis of Narcissus (1937) is an oil-on-canvas painting by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dalí. This painting is from Dalí's Paranoiac-critical period. According to Greek mythology, Narcissus fell in love with his own reflection in a pool. Unable to embrace the watery image, he pined away, and the gods immortalized him as a flower. Dalí completed this painting in 1937 on his long awaited return to Paris after having had great success in the United States. The painting shows Narcissus sitting in a pool, gazing down. Not far away there is a decaying stone figure which corresponds closely to him but is perceived quite differently; as a hand holding up a bulb or egg from which a Narcissus is growing. The egg has been used as a symbol for sexuality in other paintings by Dalí. In the background, a group of naked figures can be seen, while a third Narcissus like figure appears on the horizon. Dalí wrote the following poem, which accompanied the painting when it was initially exhibited:.
Miss Amelia Van Buren. Author Name: Thomas Eakins. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Miss Amelia Van Buren or Portrait of Amelia C. Van Buren is a ca. 1891 painting by the American artist Thomas Eakins (1844-1916), now in The Phillips Collection. It depicts Amelia Van Buren (c. 1856-1942), an artist who studied with Eakins, and was called "one of his most gifted pupils." The painting is considered one of Eakins's finest works.. Miss Amelia Van Buren or Portrait of Amelia C. Van Buren is a ca. 1891 painting by the American artist Thomas Eakins (1844-1916), now in The Phillips Collection. It depicts Amelia Van Buren (c. 1856-1942), an artist who studied with Eakins, and was called "one of his most gifted pupils." The painting is considered one of Eakins's finest works..
Mnemosyne. Author Name: Dante Gabriel Rossetti. . . Mnemosyne, also titled Lamp of Memory and Ricordanza, is an oil painting by Dante Gabriel Rossetti begun in 1875 or early 1876 and completed in 1881. Jane Morris was the model, and Frederick Richards Leyland bought the painting in 1881 and displayed it in his drawing room with five other Rossetti "stunners." At about the same time Rossetti was painting Astarte Syriaca, a larger painting completed in 1877, with Morris in a very similar pose.. Mnemosyne, also titled Lamp of Memory and Ricordanza, is an oil painting by Dante Gabriel Rossetti begun in 1875 or early 1876 and completed in 1881. Jane Morris was the model, and Frederick Richards Leyland bought the painting in 1881 and displayed it in his drawing room with five other Rossetti "stunners." At about the same time Rossetti was painting Astarte Syriaca, a larger painting completed in 1877, with Morris in a very similar pose..
Modern Rome – Campo Vaccino. Author Name: J. M. W. Turner. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . Modern Rome – Campo Vaccino is a landscape by British artist J. M. W. Turner completed in 1839. It is Turner's final painting of Rome and had been in the possession of the family of the 5th Earl of Rosebery since 1878, until the painting came to auction, 7 July 2010. It was bought by the J. Paul Getty Museum, Los Angeles, and was subject to an export bar to allow a British gallery time to attempt to match the Getty's bid. The painting is now on view at the Getty Center.. Modern Rome – Campo Vaccino is a landscape by British artist J. M. W. Turner completed in 1839. It is Turner's final painting of Rome and had been in the possession of the family of the 5th Earl of Rosebery since 1878, until the painting came to auction, 7 July 2010. It was bought by the J. Paul Getty Museum, Los Angeles, and was subject to an export bar to allow a British gallery time to attempt to match the Getty's bid. The painting is now on view at the Getty Center..
Mont Sainte-Victoire and the Viaduct of the Arc River Valley. Author Name: Paul Cézanne. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . The Mont Sainte-Victoire and the Viaduct of the Arc River Valley is an 1882—85 painting by the French artist Paul Cézanne. It is in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.. The Mont Sainte-Victoire and the Viaduct of the Arc River Valley is an 1882—85 painting by the French artist Paul Cézanne. It is in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York..
Morning in a Pine Forest. Author Name: Ivan Shishkin. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Morning in a Pine Forest (Russian: Утро в сосновом лесу) is a painting by Russian artists Ivan Shishkin and Konstantin Savitsky. Savitsky has painted the bears, but the art collector Pavel Tretyakov effaced his signature, stating that "from idea until performance, everything discloses the painting manner and creative method peculiar just to Shishkin", so the painting is now credited solely to Shishkin.It is believed that Shishkin painted the pine trees near Narva-Jõesuu in Estonia, where he often liked to rest in summers.. The Morning in a Pine Forest (Russian: Утро в сосновом лесу) is a painting by Russian artists Ivan Shishkin and Konstantin Savitsky. Savitsky has painted the bears, but the art collector Pavel Tretyakov effaced his signature, stating that "from idea until performance, everything discloses the painting manner and creative method peculiar just to Shishkin", so the painting is now credited solely to Shishkin. The Morning in a Pine Forest turned very popular, being reproduced on various items, including the "Clumsy Bear" chocolates by Krasny Oktyabr. According to one poll, the painting is the second most popular in Russia behind Bogatyrs by Viktor Vasnetsov. Shishkin's similar paintings are the Forest in Spring (1884) and The Sestroretsk Forest (1896). It is believed that Shishkin painted the pine trees near Narva-Jõesuu in Estonia, where he often liked to rest in summers..
Moses Breaking the Tablets of the Law. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Moses Breaking the Tablets of the Law is a 1659 painting by the Dutch artist Rembrandt. It is now in the Gemäldegalerie, Berlin.. Moses Breaking the Tablets of the Law is a 1659 painting by the Dutch artist Rembrandt. It is now in the Gemäldegalerie, Berlin..
Mound of Butter. Author Name: Antoine Vollon. . . Mound of Butter is a painting by the 19th-century French realist painter Antoine Vollon made between 1875 and 1885. The painting is hosted at the National Gallery of Art. The New York times called the painting one of: Washington’s Crown Jewels.. Mound of Butter is a painting by the 19th-century French realist painter Antoine Vollon made between 1875 and 1885. The painting is hosted at the National Gallery of Art. The New York times called the painting one of: Washington’s Crown Jewels..
Mr and Mrs Clark and Percy. Author Name: David Hockney. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Mr and Mrs Clark and Percy is a painting by the British artist David Hockney. Painted between 1970 and 1971, it depicts the fashion designer Ossie Clark and the textile designer Celia Birtwell shortly after their wedding at which Hockney was Clark's best man. Hockney and Clark had been friends since the early 1960s. One of their cats sits on Ossie's knee (the cat in the painting was not in fact Percy — this was the name of one of their other cats — but Hockney thought Percy made a better title than Blanche, the cat he painted). The work is in acrylic on canvas, and measures 2170 x 3084mm in its frame. The painting featured in the final 10 of the Greatest Painting in Britain Vote in 2005, the only work by a living artist to do so. The painting is in the collection of the Tate Gallery.. Mr and Mrs Clark and Percy is a painting by the British artist David Hockney. Painted between 1970 and 1971, it depicts the fashion designer Ossie Clark and the textile designer Celia Birtwell shortly after their wedding at which Hockney was Clark's best man. Hockney and Clark had been friends since the early 1960s. One of their cats sits on Ossie's knee (the cat in the painting was not in fact Percy — this was the name of one of their other cats — but Hockney thought Percy made a better title than Blanche, the cat he painted). The work is in acrylic on canvas, and measures 2170 x 3084mm in its frame. The painting featured in the final 10 of the Greatest Painting in Britain Vote in 2005, the only work by a living artist to do so. The painting is in the collection of the Tate Gallery..
Mrs. Richard Brinsley Sheridan. Author Name: Thomas Gainsborough. . . Mrs. Richard Brinsley Sheridan (1787) is an oil on canvas portrait painted by Thomas Gainsborough between 1785 and 1787. It was acquired by the National Gallery of Art in 1937. Mrs. Sheridan (Elizabeth Ann Linley) was a talented musician who enjoyed professional success in Bath and London before marrying Richard Brinsley Sheridan in 1773 and abandoning her career. She was 31 when she sat for Gainsborough, dying from tuberculosis seven years later at the age of thirty-eight. The portrait was painted between 1785 and 1787, and, was exhibited at Gainsborough's studio at Schomberg House, Pall Mall in 1786.. Mrs. Richard Brinsley Sheridan (1787) is an oil on canvas portrait painted by Thomas Gainsborough between 1785 and 1787. It was acquired by the National Gallery of Art in 1937. Mrs. Sheridan (Elizabeth Ann Linley) was a talented musician who enjoyed professional success in Bath and London before marrying Richard Brinsley Sheridan in 1773 and abandoning her career. She was 31 when she sat for Gainsborough, dying from tuberculosis seven years later at the age of thirty-eight. The portrait was painted between 1785 and 1787, and, was exhibited at Gainsborough's studio at Schomberg House, Pall Mall in 1786..
Mural on Indian Red Ground. Author Name: Jackson Pollock. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . Mural on Indian Red Ground is a 1950 abstract expressionist drip painting by American artist Jackson Pollock, currently in the collection of the Tehran Museum of Contemporary Art. It is valued at about $250 million and is considered one of Pollock's greatest works.. Mural on Indian Red Ground is a 1950 abstract expressionist drip painting by American artist Jackson Pollock, currently in the collection of the Tehran Museum of Contemporary Art. It is valued at about $250 million and is considered one of Pollock's greatest works..
Nana on a Dolphin. Author Name: Niki de Saint Phalle. . . Nana on a Dolphin is a public artwork by French sculptor Niki de Saint Phalle. Nana on a Dolphin is part of the National Museum of Women in the Arts New York Avenue Sculpture Project and has also been on display at the home of Nicole Salinger in Provence, France.. Nana on a Dolphin is a public artwork by French sculptor Niki de Saint Phalle. Nana on a Dolphin is part of the National Museum of Women in the Arts New York Avenue Sculpture Project and has also been on display at the home of Nicole Salinger in Provence, France..
Napoleon in the Wilderness. Author Name: Max Ernst. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dada. . Napoleon in the Wilderness is a 1941 surrealist painting by Max Ernst in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art.. Napoleon in the Wilderness is a 1941 surrealist painting by Max Ernst in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art..
Nave Nave Mahana. Author Name: Paul Gauguin. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Nave Nave Mahana (Tahitian: Delicious day) was made in 1896 by Paul Gauguin in Tahiti. It is kept in the Museum of Fine Arts of Lyon. The painting became part of the collections of the Lyon Museum in 1913.. Nave Nave Mahana (Tahitian: Delicious day) was made in 1896 by Paul Gauguin in Tahiti. It is kept in the Museum of Fine Arts of Lyon. The painting became part of the collections of the Lyon Museum in 1913..
Needle Tower. Author Name: Kenneth Snelson. . . Needle Tower is a public artwork by American sculptor Kenneth Snelson located outside of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in Washington, DC, United States.. Needle Tower is a public artwork by American sculptor Kenneth Snelson located outside of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in Washington, DC, United States..
Niagara Falls, from the American Side. Author Name: Frederic Edwin Church. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Hudson_River_School. . Niagara Falls, from the American Side is a painting by the American artist Frederic Edwin Church (1826–1900). Completed in 1867, and based on preliminary sketches made by the artist at Niagara Falls and on a sepia photograph, it is one of a series of paintings by Church of this famous landmark. The painting is now in the collection of the Scottish National Gallery. Church is noted as one of the most outstanding landscape painters in the United States.. Niagara Falls, from the American Side is a painting by the American artist Frederic Edwin Church (1826–1900). Completed in 1867, and based on preliminary sketches made by the artist at Niagara Falls and on a sepia photograph, it is one of a series of paintings by Church of this famous landmark. The painting is now in the collection of the Scottish National Gallery. Church is noted as one of the most outstanding landscape painters in the United States..
Nine Spaces Nine Trees. Author Name: Robert Irwin. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Light_and_Space. . Nine Spaces Nine Trees (sometimes Nine Spaces, Nine Trees) is a 1982–1983 art installation by American artist Robert Irwin, located on the University of Washington campus in Seattle, Washington, in the United States. The installation was surveyed and deemed "well maintained" by the Smithsonian Institution's "Save Outdoor Sculpture!" program in 1995. It was recreated in 2007.. Nine Spaces Nine Trees (sometimes Nine Spaces, Nine Trees) is a 1982–1983 art installation by American artist Robert Irwin, located on the University of Washington campus in Seattle, Washington, in the United States. The installation was surveyed and deemed "well maintained" by the Smithsonian Institution's "Save Outdoor Sculpture!" program in 1995. It was recreated in 2007..
Nittany Lion Shrine. Author Name: Warneke, Heinz. . . The Nittany Lion Shrine is a large mountain lion sculpture made by Heinz Warneke located at the main campus of the Pennsylvania State University. The shrine is the second most photographed landmark in Pennsylvania, behind the Liberty Bell in Philadelphia.. The Nittany Lion Shrine is a large mountain lion sculpture made by Heinz Warneke located at the main campus of the Pennsylvania State University. The shrine is the second most photographed landmark in Pennsylvania, behind the Liberty Bell in Philadelphia..
Nocturne: Blue and Gold —. Author Name: James Abbott McNeill Whistler. . Author Movement: Founder of Tonalism. . Nocturne: Blue and Gold – Old Battersea Bridge is a painting by the American artist James McNeill Whistler, now held in the collections of Tate Britain. It was painted around 1872–5.This painting is of the old wooden Battersea Bridge across the River Thames before it was replaced by the modern bridge. Chelsea Old Church to the left (on the north bank of the river) and the then recently built Albert Bridge to the right, with fireworks above, can be seen in the distance. The picture is an evening view and is full of atmospheric effect. The bridge is painted taller than it actually was for added effect. Hokusai, a favorite artist of Whistler's from Japan, produced a similar picture of a tall wooden bridge with fireworks.. Nocturne: Blue and Gold – Old Battersea Bridge is a painting by the American artist James McNeill Whistler, now held in the collections of Tate Britain. It was painted around 1872–5. This painting is of the old wooden Battersea Bridge across the River Thames before it was replaced by the modern bridge. Chelsea Old Church to the left (on the north bank of the river) and the then recently built Albert Bridge to the right, with fireworks above, can be seen in the distance. The picture is an evening view and is full of atmospheric effect. The bridge is painted taller than it actually was for added effect. Hokusai, a favorite artist of Whistler's from Japan, produced a similar picture of a tall wooden bridge with fireworks. The painting was presented to the Tate Gallery by the National Art Collections Fund in 1905. Whistler's Nocturne series, of which this painting was a part, achieved notoriety in 1877, when influential critic John Ruskin visited an exhibition of the series at the Grosvenor Gallery. He wrote of the exhibition that Whistler was "asking two hundred guineas for flinging a pot of paint in the public's face". Whistler sued for libel, the case reaching the courts in 1878. The judge in the case, one Baron Huddleston, caused laughter in the court when he (apparently sincerely) asked Whistler "Which part of the picture is the bridge?" The case ended with Whistler awarded token damages of one farthing. In 1905, Nocturne: Blue and Gold became the first significant acquisition by the newly formed National Art Collections Fund, and now hangs in Tate Britain..
Nocturne in Black and Gold – The Falling Rocket. Author Name: James Abbott McNeill Whistler. . Author Movement: Founder of Tonalism. . Nocturne in Black and Gold – The Falling Rocket is a painting of c. 1875 by James Abbott McNeill Whistler that exemplified the Art for art's sake movement – a concept formulated by Pierre Jules Théophile Gautier and Charles Baudelaire. This painting was first shown at the Grosvenor Gallery in London in 1877 and is one of two works (the other being Nocturne in Black and Gold – The Firewheel) inspired by the Cremorne Gardens, a celebrated pleasure resort in London. One of his many works from his series of Nocturnes, it is the last of the London Nocturnes and is now widely acknowledged to be the high point of Whistler's middle period. Whistler's depiction of the industrial city park in The Falling Rocket includes a fireworks display in the foggy night sky. Nocturne in Black and Gold – The Fal. Nocturne in Black and Gold – The Falling Rocket is a painting of c. 1875 by James Abbott McNeill Whistler that exemplified the Art for art's sake movement – a concept formulated by Pierre Jules Théophile Gautier and Charles Baudelaire. This painting was first shown at the Grosvenor Gallery in London in 1877 and is one of two works (the other being Nocturne in Black and Gold – The Firewheel) inspired by the Cremorne Gardens, a celebrated pleasure resort in London. One of his many works from his series of Nocturnes, it is the last of the London Nocturnes and is now widely acknowledged to be the high point of Whistler's middle period. Whistler's depiction of the industrial city park in The Falling Rocket includes a fireworks display in the foggy night sky. Nocturne in Black and Gold – The Falling Rocket is most famously known as the inception of the lawsuit between Whistler and the art critic John Ruskin..
Noli me tangere. Author Name: Titian. . . Noli me tangere is a c. 1514 painting by Titian of the Noli me tangere episode in St John's Gospel. The painting is housed at the National Gallery in London.. Noli me tangere is a c. 1514 painting by Titian of the Noli me tangere episode in St John's Gospel. The painting is housed at the National Gallery in London..
Non-violence. Author Name: Reutersward, Carl Fredrik. . . Non-Violence is a bronze sculpture by Swedish artist Carl Fredrik Reuterswärd of an oversized Colt Python .357 Magnum revolver with a knotted barrel and the muzzle pointing upwards. Carl made this sculpture after singer, songwriter and peace activist John Lennon was murdered.There are currently 17 copies of the sculpture around the world, ten of them in Sweden. They are placed in:Located in The Museum of Sketches in Lund, Sweden, is a sketch of the firearm where Reuterswärd has written that the grieving after Lennon and Bob Crane were murdered inspired him to design this artwork.. Non-Violence is a bronze sculpture by Swedish artist Carl Fredrik Reuterswärd of an oversized Colt Python .357 Magnum revolver with a knotted barrel and the muzzle pointing upwards. Carl made this sculpture after singer, songwriter and peace activist John Lennon was murdered. There are currently 17 copies of the sculpture around the world, ten of them in Sweden. They are placed in: Located in The Museum of Sketches in Lund, Sweden, is a sketch of the firearm where Reuterswärd has written that the grieving after Lennon and Bob Crane were murdered inspired him to design this artwork. Since 1993, the sculpture is the symbol of The Non-Violence Project, a nonprofit organization, promoting social change with violence prevention education programs..
Northeaster. Author Name: Winslow Homer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Northeaster is one of several paintings on marine subjects by the late-19th-century American painter Winslow Homer. Like The Fog Warning and Breezing Up, he created it during his time in Maine. It is on display in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. Viewers are presented a struggle of elements between the sea and the rocky shore. Winslow Homer excelled in painting landscape paintings that depicted seascapes and mountain scenery.. Northeaster is one of several paintings on marine subjects by the late-19th-century American painter Winslow Homer. Like The Fog Warning and Breezing Up, he created it during his time in Maine. It is on display in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. Viewers are presented a struggle of elements between the sea and the rocky shore. Winslow Homer excelled in painting landscape paintings that depicted seascapes and mountain scenery..
Nude Sitting on a Divan. Author Name: Amedeo Modigliani. . . Nude Sitting on a Divan (The Beautiful Roman Woman) is an oil on canvas painting by Italian artist Amedeo Modigliani depicting a partially draped woman seated with crossed legs against a warm red background. The work was one of a series of nudes painted by Modigliani in 1917 that created a sensation when exhibited in Paris that year. On November 2, 2010, the painting sold at a New York auction for $68.9 million, a record price for an artwork by Modigliani.. Nude Sitting on a Divan (The Beautiful Roman Woman) is an oil on canvas painting by Italian artist Amedeo Modigliani depicting a partially draped woman seated with crossed legs against a warm red background. The work was one of a series of nudes painted by Modigliani in 1917 that created a sensation when exhibited in Paris that year. On November 2, 2010, the painting sold at a New York auction for $68.9 million, a record price for an artwork by Modigliani. The several dozen nudes Modigliani painted between 1916 and 1919 constitute many of his best-known works. Simultaneously abstracted and erotically detailed, they exhibit a formal grace referencing nude figures of the Italian Renaissance while at the same time objectifying their subjects' sexuality; they "exemplify his position between tradition and modernism". The nudes of this period are "displayed boldly, with only the faintest suggestion of setting.... neither demure nor provocative, they are depicted with a degree of objectivity. Yet the uniformly thick, rough application of paint— as if applied by a sculptor's hand— is more concerned with mass and the visceral perception of the female body than with titillation and the re-creation of translucent, tactile flesh". This series of nudes was commissioned by Modigliani's dealer and friend Leopold Zborowski, who lent the artist use of his apartment, supplied models and painting materials, and paid him between fifteen and twenty francs each day for his work. The paintings from this arrangement were thus different from his previous depictions of friends and lovers in that they were funded by Zborowski either for his own collection, as a favor to his friend, or with an eye to their "commercial potential", rather than originating from the artist's personal circle of acquaintances. The Paris show of 1917 was Modigliani's only solo exhibition during his life, and is "notorious" in modern art history for its sensational public reception and the attendant issues of obscenity. The show was closed by police on its opening day, but continued thereafter, most likely after the removal of paintings from the gallery's streetfront window. According to the catalogue description from the 2010 sale at Sotheby's, seven nudes were exhibited in the 1917 show, four of them titled Nu; "the present work may have been among these pictures.... the models' permissiveness and the artist's accessibility to them implied that these oils were post coital-renderings, the women still flush and basking in the afterglow". In 1999 Nude Sitting on a Divan sold at Sotheby's for $16.7 million, a record price for a painting by the artist. The most recent sale far surpassed the pre-sale estimate of $40 million, as well as the previous record for one of Modigliani's works, $52.6 million for a sculpture..
Odalisque. Author Name: Juan Luna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Odalisque is a famous 1885 painting by awarding Filipino painter and hero Juan Luna. It is one of Luna's so-called "Academic Salon portraits" that followed the standards of proper proportion and perspective, and realistic depictions with "an air of dignity and allure". Although less polished compared to Luna's other works of art, the Odalisque is typical of the well-planned characteristic of the artist's portraits, meaning it was painted in a personal studio while expertly studying the desired effects, and with finesse. The Odalisque is one of the paintings that made Luna as an officially accepted artist at the Salon of Paris because it shows Luna's skill at draftsmanship, his "talent to draw and to draw well". The Odalisque was formerly a part of the painting collection of Philippine . The Odalisque is a famous 1885 painting by awarding Filipino painter and hero Juan Luna. It is one of Luna's so-called "Academic Salon portraits" that followed the standards of proper proportion and perspective, and realistic depictions with "an air of dignity and allure". Although less polished compared to Luna's other works of art, the Odalisque is typical of the well-planned characteristic of the artist's portraits, meaning it was painted in a personal studio while expertly studying the desired effects, and with finesse. The Odalisque is one of the paintings that made Luna as an officially accepted artist at the Salon of Paris because it shows Luna's skill at draftsmanship, his "talent to draw and to draw well". The Odalisque was formerly a part of the painting collection of Philippine national hero José Rizal. It is currently a component of the Don Luis Araneta Collection in the Philippines..
Odalisque with Raised Arms. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . Odalisque with Raised Arms is a painting by Henri Matisse from 1923. The full title is Odalisque assise aux bras levés, fauteuil rayé vert, which translates as "Odalisque with raised arms sitting on a green striped armchair". It is located in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C, which acquired it in 1963 from the art collector Chester Dale.. Odalisque with Raised Arms is a painting by Henri Matisse from 1923. The full title is Odalisque assise aux bras levés, fauteuil rayé vert, which translates as "Odalisque with raised arms sitting on a green striped armchair". It is located in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C, which acquired it in 1963 from the art collector Chester Dale. The subject is Henriette Darricarrière, who was a ballet dancer at Studios de la Victorine, a cinematic studio founded in 1919 now called Studios Riviera.fr:Studios Riviera A fellow painter, she also played the violin and the piano. The transparent pants she is wearing are part of a harem costume..
Odalisque with a Slave. Author Name: Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . Odalisque with a Slave (French: L'Odalisque à l'esclave) is an 1839 orientalist painting by Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres commissioned by Charles Marcotte. The painting is on display at the Fogg Art Museum in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Ingres made a second version (shown at right) in 1842 with the help of two of his students, Paul and Jean-Hippolyte Flandrin, which is at the Walters Art Museum in Baltimore. It differs from the original by the presence of a garden painted by Paul Flandrin, inspired by the park at the Château de Dampierre.. Odalisque with a Slave (French: L'Odalisque à l'esclave) is an 1839 orientalist painting by Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres commissioned by Charles Marcotte. The painting is on display at the Fogg Art Museum in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Ingres made a second version (shown at right) in 1842 with the help of two of his students, Paul and Jean-Hippolyte Flandrin, which is at the Walters Art Museum in Baltimore. It differs from the original by the presence of a garden painted by Paul Flandrin, inspired by the park at the Château de Dampierre. The work is a classic piece of Orientalism in French painting..
Ohhh...Alright.... Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Ohhh...Alright... is a 1964 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It formerly held the record for highest auction price for a Lichtenstein painting.. Ohhh...Alright... is a 1964 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It formerly held the record for highest auction price for a Lichtenstein painting..
Old Woman Frying Eggs. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Old Woman Frying Eggs is a genre painting by Diego Velázquez, produced during his Seville period. The date is not precisely known but is thought to be around the turn of 1618 before his definitive move to Madrid in 1623. It is now in the National Gallery of Scotland in Edinburgh. Velázquez frequently used working-class characters in early works like this one, in many cases using his family as models; the old woman here also appears in his Christ in the House of Martha and Mary (1618).. Old Woman Frying Eggs is a genre painting by Diego Velázquez, produced during his Seville period. The date is not precisely known but is thought to be around the turn of 1618 before his definitive move to Madrid in 1623. It is now in the National Gallery of Scotland in Edinburgh. Velázquez frequently used working-class characters in early works like this one, in many cases using his family as models; the old woman here also appears in his Christ in the House of Martha and Mary (1618). Like other early works by the artist, it shows the influence of chiaroscuro, with a strong light source coming in from the left illuminating the woman, her utensils and the poaching eggs, while throwing the background and the boy standing to her right into deep shadow. Here the chiaroscuro is very intense, so much so that it would be impossible to see the wall at the bottom of the painting but for the basket hanging from it; it simultaneously manages to combine the murky darkness and high contrasts of light and shadow with the use of subtle hues and a palette dominated by ochres and browns. The composition is organised as an oval with the middle figures in the nearest plane, thus drawing in the viewer. The realism is nearly photographic and shows everyday plates, cutlery, pans, pestles, jugs and mortars, capturing the special shine on a glass surface and the light's play on the melon carried by the boy. The boiling pan is particularly well-captured, with its spitting oil and the whites of the eggs. Velázquez also worked particularly hard on the detail of the two figures's hands..
On the Contrary. Author Name: Kay Sage. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Surrealism. . On The Contrary is an oil on canvas painting by Kay Sage, painted in 1952. It is housed in the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis, Minnesota.. On The Contrary is an oil on canvas painting by Kay Sage, painted in 1952. It is housed in the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis, Minnesota..
Over My Dead Body. Author Name: Ramon Casas. . Author Movement: Modernisme. . Over My Dead Body, 1893, is a painting by Ramon Casas, in the National Art Museum of Catalonia in Barcelona.. Over My Dead Body, 1893, is a painting by Ramon Casas, in the National Art Museum of Catalonia in Barcelona..
Paths of Glory. Author Name: CRW Nevinson. . . Paths of Glory is a 1917 painting by British artist Christopher Nevinson. The title quotes from a line from Thomas Gray's poem Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard: "The paths of glory lead but to the grave". It is held by the Imperial War Museum in London, which describes it as "one of Nevinson's most famous paintings".. Paths of Glory is a 1917 painting by British artist Christopher Nevinson. The title quotes from a line from Thomas Gray's poem Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard: "The paths of glory lead but to the grave". It is held by the Imperial War Museum in London, which describes it as "one of Nevinson's most famous paintings"..
Magdalene Penitent. Author Name: Donatello. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Penitent Magdalene is a wooden sculpture of Mary Magdalene by the Italian Renaissance sculptor Donatello, created around 1453-1455. The sculpture was probably commissioned for the Baptistery of Florence. The piece was received with astonishment for its unprecedented realism. It is currently housed in the Museo dell'Opera del Duomo in Florence.The wood used by Donatello is that of White poplar.. The Penitent Magdalene is a wooden sculpture of Mary Magdalene by the Italian Renaissance sculptor Donatello, created around 1453-1455. The sculpture was probably commissioned for the Baptistery of Florence. The piece was received with astonishment for its unprecedented realism. It is currently housed in the Museo dell'Opera del Duomo in Florence. The wood used by Donatello is that of White poplar..
Personnage Gothique, Oiseau-Eclair. Author Name: Joan Miró. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . Personnage Gothique, Oiseau-Eclair is a bronze sculpture by Joan Miró.It was created in 1974, and cast in 1977. It is in the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden, Washington, USA.. Personnage Gothique, Oiseau-Eclair is a bronze sculpture by Joan Miró. It was created in 1974, and cast in 1977. It is in the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden, Washington, USA..
Pia de' Tolomei. Author Name: Dante Gabriel Rossetti. . . Pia de' Tolomei is an oil painting on canvas by English artist Dante Gabriel Rossetti, painted around 1868 and currently housed at the Spencer Museum of Art, on the campus of the University of Kansas in Lawrence, Kansas.. Pia de' Tolomei is an oil painting on canvas by English artist Dante Gabriel Rossetti, painted around 1868 and currently housed at the Spencer Museum of Art, on the campus of the University of Kansas in Lawrence, Kansas..
Pietà. Author Name: Pietro Perugino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Pietà is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Pietro Perugino, executed around 1483-1493, and housed in the Uffizi Gallery, Florence.. Pietà is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Pietro Perugino, executed around 1483-1493, and housed in the Uffizi Gallery, Florence..
Pilgrims Going To Church. Author Name: George Henry Boughton. . . Pilgrims Going To Church (1867) — originally The Early Puritans of New England Going to Church — is a celebrated and much reproduced painting by Anglo-American painter George Henry Boughton (1833–1905).. Pilgrims Going To Church (1867) — originally The Early Puritans of New England Going to Church — is a celebrated and much reproduced painting by Anglo-American painter George Henry Boughton (1833–1905)..
Place de la Concorde. Author Name: Edgar Degas. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Place de la Concorde or Viscount Lepic and his Daughters Crossing the Place de la Concorde or Ludovic Lepic and his Daughters is an 1875 oil by Edgar Degas. It depicts the cigar smoking Vicomte Ludovic-Napoléon Lepic, his daughters, and his dog, and a solitary man on the left in Place de la Concorde in Paris. The Tuileries Gardens can be seen in the background behind a stone wall. Many art historians believe that the large amount of negative space, the cropping and the way in which the figures are facing in random directions was influenced by photography.. Place de la Concorde or Viscount Lepic and his Daughters Crossing the Place de la Concorde or Ludovic Lepic and his Daughters is an 1875 oil by Edgar Degas. It depicts the cigar smoking Vicomte Ludovic-Napoléon Lepic, his daughters, and his dog, and a solitary man on the left in Place de la Concorde in Paris. The Tuileries Gardens can be seen in the background behind a stone wall. Many art historians believe that the large amount of negative space, the cropping and the way in which the figures are facing in random directions was influenced by photography. The painting was considered lost for four decades following World War II, until the Russian authorities put it on exhibition at the Hermitage Museum, where it remains to this day. During Soviet occupation of Germany the work was moved from the collection of Otto Gerstenberg to the Hermitage. Degas also painted the Viscount Lepic and His Daughters in a separate 1870 painting..
Ploughing in the Nivernais. Author Name: Rosa Bonheur. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Ploughing in the Nivernais (French: Labourage nivernais), also known as Oxen ploughing in Nevers, is a painting by French artist Rosa Bonheur. It depicts two teams of oxen ploughing the land, and expresses the deep commitment to the land that was typical of the French Third Republic; it may have been inspired by the opening scene of George Sand's 1846 novel La Mare au Diable. Commissioned by the government and winner of a First Medal at the Salon in 1849, today it is held in the Musée d'Orsay in Paris.. Ploughing in the Nivernais (French: Labourage nivernais), also known as Oxen ploughing in Nevers, is a painting by French artist Rosa Bonheur. It depicts two teams of oxen ploughing the land, and expresses the deep commitment to the land that was typical of the French Third Republic; it may have been inspired by the opening scene of George Sand's 1846 novel La Mare au Diable. Commissioned by the government and winner of a First Medal at the Salon in 1849, today it is held in the Musée d'Orsay in Paris..
Police Gazette. Author Name: Willem de Kooning. . . Police Gazette is a 1955 abstract painting by Willem de Kooning, which is currently in private hands.. Police Gazette is a 1955 abstract painting by Willem de Kooning, which is currently in private hands..
Portrait of Agnolo Doni. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Agnolo Doni is an oil painting by Italian Renaissance master Raphael, executed between 1506 and 1507. It is currently housed in the Pitti Palace in Florence.. The Portrait of Agnolo Doni is an oil painting by Italian Renaissance master Raphael, executed between 1506 and 1507. It is currently housed in the Pitti Palace in Florence..
Portrait of Andrea Doria as Neptune. Author Name: Bronzino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . The Portrait of Andrea Doria as Neptune (Italian: Ritratto di Andrea Doria in veste di Nettuno) is an oil painting on canvas completed by Bronzino for a private collection in c. 1530. It depicts the Genoan admiral, Andrea Doria, in a manner reminiscent of Neptune.. The Portrait of Andrea Doria as Neptune (Italian: Ritratto di Andrea Doria in veste di Nettuno) is an oil painting on canvas completed by Bronzino for a private collection in c. 1530. It depicts the Genoan admiral, Andrea Doria, in a manner reminiscent of Neptune..
Portrait of Andrea Odoni. Author Name: Lorenzo Lotto. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Andrea Odoni is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Lorenzo Lotto, dating to 1527. It is housed in the Royal Collection of Windsor Castle, London, United Kingdom.. The Portrait of Andrea Odoni is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Lorenzo Lotto, dating to 1527. It is housed in the Royal Collection of Windsor Castle, London, United Kingdom..
Portrait of Clarissa Strozzi. Author Name: Titian. . . Portrait of Clarissa Strozzi is a portrait by the Italian painter Titian from 1542 belonging to the Gemäldegalerie in Berlin.The painting depicts a girl from the old Florentine family of Strozzi. The girl seems slightly frightened and holds onto her little Phalene dog. By some it is considered an example of one of the most beautiful child portraits in the world thanks to colouring and specifically the combination of colours carmine red, blue and golden yellow. This canvas is considered an inspiration for similar paintings by Anthony van Dyck.. Portrait of Clarissa Strozzi is a portrait by the Italian painter Titian from 1542 belonging to the Gemäldegalerie in Berlin. The painting depicts a girl from the old Florentine family of Strozzi. The girl seems slightly frightened and holds onto her little Phalene dog. By some it is considered an example of one of the most beautiful child portraits in the world thanks to colouring and specifically the combination of colours carmine red, blue and golden yellow. This canvas is considered an inspiration for similar paintings by Anthony van Dyck..
Portrait of Daniele Barbaro. Author Name: Paolo Veronese. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Portrait of Daniele Barbaro is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Paolo Veronese (from circa 1565-1567), belonging to the collection of the Rijksmuseum Amsterdam.There is a portrait by Veronese in the Pitti Palace, Florence, which has been described as Barbaro dressed as a Venetian aristocrat, but this identification is not certain.Barbaro was also portrayed by Titian.. The Portrait of Daniele Barbaro is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Paolo Veronese (from circa 1565-1567), belonging to the collection of the Rijksmuseum Amsterdam. There is a portrait by Veronese in the Pitti Palace, Florence, which has been described as Barbaro dressed as a Venetian aristocrat, but this identification is not certain. Barbaro was also portrayed by Titian..
Portrait of Doge Leonardo Loredan. Author Name: Giovanni Bellini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Portrait of Doge Leonardo Loredan is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini, dating from 1501. It is on display in the National Gallery in London. It portrays Leonardo Loredan, Doge of Venice from 1501 to 1521, in his ceremonial garments with the corno worn over a linen cap, and is signed  on a cartellino.. The Portrait of Doge Leonardo Loredan is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini, dating from 1501. It is on display in the National Gallery in London. It portrays Leonardo Loredan, Doge of Venice from 1501 to 1521, in his ceremonial garments with the corno worn over a linen cap, and is signed on a cartellino..
Portrait of Giovanna Tornabuoni. Author Name: Domenico Ghirlandaio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Giovanna Tornabuoni is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Domenico Ghirlandaio, executed in 1488 and located in the Museo Thyssen-Bornemisza, Madrid.. The Portrait of Giovanna Tornabuoni is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Domenico Ghirlandaio, executed in 1488 and located in the Museo Thyssen-Bornemisza, Madrid..
Portrait of Gustave Geffroy. Author Name: Paul Cézanne. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Portrait of Gustave Geffroy is a c. 1895 painting by the French Post-Impressionist artist Paul Cézanne. It portrays Gustave Geffroy, a French novelist and art critic noted as one of the earliest historians of Impressionism. In March 1894, Geffroy wrote a sympathetic article in the periodical Le Journal praising the work of painter Paul Cézanne who until then had received little praise in critical circles. Mutual friend Claude Monet arranged for a meeting between the two in November of that year which ended abruptly due to Cézanne's oft-noted erratic behavior. Nonetheless, Geffroy continued to write favorably of Cézanne, believing, "He is a great teller of truth. Passionate and candid, silent and subtle, he will go to The Louvre." Cézanne expressed thanks in letters to Geffroy in the months. Portrait of Gustave Geffroy is a c. 1895 painting by the French Post-Impressionist artist Paul Cézanne. It portrays Gustave Geffroy, a French novelist and art critic noted as one of the earliest historians of Impressionism. In March 1894, Geffroy wrote a sympathetic article in the periodical Le Journal praising the work of painter Paul Cézanne who until then had received little praise in critical circles. Mutual friend Claude Monet arranged for a meeting between the two in November of that year which ended abruptly due to Cézanne's oft-noted erratic behavior. Nonetheless, Geffroy continued to write favorably of Cézanne, believing, "He is a great teller of truth. Passionate and candid, silent and subtle, he will go to The Louvre." Cézanne expressed thanks in letters to Geffroy in the months following their meeting and, in a display of gratitude (and possible feeling that Geffroy understood him), he elected to paint Geffroy's portrait. The painter sent the critic a request in April 1895, after which Geffroy sat for Cézanne daily over a span of three months in the study at his home in Paris. After the three months' time, Cézanne, disappointed with the portrait's results, fled both the painting and Paris itself for his home in Aix-en-Provence. In a July 6 letter to Monet, he explained, "I am a little upset at the meager result I obtained, especially after so many sittings and successive bursts of enthusiasm and despair." It has also been speculated that, despite his words of gratitude in the same letter to Monet noting Geffroy's patience over the three-month span, the artist had built up feelings of resentment, even hostility, toward the critic, causing his abandonment of the project for seclusion in Aix. Reasons for the breakdown in relations on Cézanne's part have been attributed to everything from politics to artistic principles to religion. Cézanne was unhappy with the painting and it was never finished, yet Portrait of Gustave Geffroy became a popular retrospective work after his death. Cubist painters were interested in the geometrical dimensions of the bookcase and perspective of vast table space in relation to the rest of the pictorial space. Geffroy noted that Cézanne painted the entire canvas at once, leaving the face and hands for last; they were ultimately unfinished. The portrait has been described as angular, with the figure of Geffroy centered as a pyramidal or triangular figure, and surrounded by shelves, books and figurines complementing and converging on top of his profile. The multiple angles of perspective, particularly with the books both in cases and on the table, have been noted for their "zig-zag" effect on the viewer, creating movement within the painting. The portrait has been noted as the continuation of a recurring Cézanne theme: people in their natural environment, reserved and unimposing, immersed in their everyday tasks. It has also been compared to the earlier Portrait of Duranty by Edgar Degas, from which critics have speculated Cézanne drew inspiration. The painting was donated to the French state in 1969 by the family of collector Auguste Pellerin and is on permanent display at the Musée d'Orsay in Paris..
Portrait of Jacques Nayral. Author Name: Albert Gleizes. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_art. . Portrait of Jacques Nayral (also known as Portrait de Jacques Nayral), is a large oil painting created in 1911 by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes (1881–1953). It was exhibited in Paris at the Salon d'Automne of 1911 (no. 609), the Salon de la Section d'Or, 1912 (no. 38), and reproduced in Du "Cubisme" written by Jean Metzinger and Albert Gleizes in 1912, the first and only manifesto on Cubism. Metzinger in 1911 described Gleizes' painting as 'a great portrait'. Portrait of Jacques Nayral, one of Gleizes' first major Cubist works, while still 'readable' in the figurative or representational sense, exemplifies the mobile, dynamic fragmentation of form characteristic of Cubism at the outset of 1911. Highly sophisticated in theory and in practice, this aspect of simultane. Portrait of Jacques Nayral (also known as Portrait de Jacques Nayral), is a large oil painting created in 1911 by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes (1881–1953). It was exhibited in Paris at the Salon d'Automne of 1911 (no. 609), the Salon de la Section d'Or, 1912 (no. 38), and reproduced in Du "Cubisme" written by Jean Metzinger and Albert Gleizes in 1912, the first and only manifesto on Cubism. Metzinger in 1911 described Gleizes' painting as 'a great portrait'. Portrait of Jacques Nayral, one of Gleizes' first major Cubist works, while still 'readable' in the figurative or representational sense, exemplifies the mobile, dynamic fragmentation of form characteristic of Cubism at the outset of 1911. Highly sophisticated in theory and in practice, this aspect of simultaneity would soon become identified with the practices of the Section d'Or. Here Gleizes deploys these techniques in a radical, personal and coherent manner. Jacques Nayral (a pseudonym for Joseph Houot) was a young modernist poet, dramatist, publisher and occasional sports writer, who shared with Gleizes a passion for the theories of Henri Bergson. He was a friend of Gleizes and married his sister Mireille in 1912. Gleizes began work on his portrait in 1910. The interfusion and interrelation between the sitter and the background of the painting reflect Bergson’s concepts about the simultaneity of experience. It was avant-garde works such as this widely exhibited portrait that fed the public outcry against Cubism. "Its scale echoes the large-scale paintings of the official exhibitions, while its style subverts that tradition". (Tate Modern) Purchased in 1979, the painting is exhibited in the permanent collection of the Tate Modern in London..
Portrait of Jeanne Kéfer. Author Name: Fernand Khnopff. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Symbolism_(arts). . Portrait of Jeanne Kéfer is a portrait by Fernand Khnopff, painted in 1885. Currently housed and exhibited in the The J. Paul Getty Museum, Los Angeles.. Portrait of Jeanne Kéfer is a portrait by Fernand Khnopff, painted in 1885. Currently housed and exhibited in the The J. Paul Getty Museum, Los Angeles..
Portrait of Madame Récamier. Author Name: Jacques-Louis David. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . Portrait of Madame Récamier is an 1800 portrait of the Parisian socialite Juliette Récamier by Jacques-Louis David showing her in the height of Neoclassical fashion, reclining on an Directoire style sofa in a simple Empire line dress with almost bare arms, and short hair "à la Titus". He began it in May 1800 but may have left it unfinished when he learned that François Gérard had been commissioned before him to paint a portrait of the same model (Gerard's portrait was completed in 1802); on the other hand many David portraits have the same bare background. The pose of a reclining figure looking back over her shoulder was adopted in 1814 by Ingres for his Grande Odalisque. It is now in the Louvre.. Portrait of Madame Récamier is an 1800 portrait of the Parisian socialite Juliette Récamier by Jacques-Louis David showing her in the height of Neoclassical fashion, reclining on an Directoire style sofa in a simple Empire line dress with almost bare arms, and short hair "à la Titus". He began it in May 1800 but may have left it unfinished when he learned that François Gérard had been commissioned before him to paint a portrait of the same model (Gerard's portrait was completed in 1802); on the other hand many David portraits have the same bare background. The pose of a reclining figure looking back over her shoulder was adopted in 1814 by Ingres for his Grande Odalisque. It is now in the Louvre. In Creatures in an Alphabet, Djuna Barnes wrote of the subject as René Magritte also parodied David's painting in his own Perspective: Madame Récamier by David, showing a coffin reclining, now in the National Gallery of Canada..
Portrait of Maddalena Doni. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Maddalena Doni is an oil painting by Italian Renaissance master Raphael, made in 1506. It is housed in the Pitti Palace in Florence.. The Portrait of Maddalena Doni is an oil painting by Italian Renaissance master Raphael, made in 1506. It is housed in the Pitti Palace in Florence..
Portrait of Professor Benjamin H. Rand. Author Name: Thomas Eakins. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Portrait of Professor Benjamin H. Rand is an 1874 painting by Thomas Eakins. It is oil on canvas and depicts Benjamin H. Rand, a doctor at Jefferson Medical College who taught Eakins anatomy. In the painting, Rand is reading a book while petting a cat.The portrait was the first Eakins made of someone outside his family. It is a prelude to what he considered his most important painting, The Gross Clinic (1875). Rand donated it to Jefferson Medical College when he retired.. Portrait of Professor Benjamin H. Rand is an 1874 painting by Thomas Eakins. It is oil on canvas and depicts Benjamin H. Rand, a doctor at Jefferson Medical College who taught Eakins anatomy. In the painting, Rand is reading a book while petting a cat. The portrait was the first Eakins made of someone outside his family. It is a prelude to what he considered his most important painting, The Gross Clinic (1875). Rand donated it to Jefferson Medical College when he retired. It was purchased by Alice L. Walton for an estimated US$20 million in April 2007, to be housed at the Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art..
Portrait of Seymour H. Knox. Author Name: Andy Warhol. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Portrait of Seymour H. Knox is a 1985 portrait by Andy Warhol of Seymour H. Knox II. It was donated by the families of his two sons, Mr. and Mrs. Seymour H. Knox III and Mrs. and Mrs. Northrup R. Knox, to the Albright-Knox Art Gallery in honor of Seymour H. Knox II for his 60 year contribution as a member of the Buffalo Fine Arts Academy.. Portrait of Seymour H. Knox is a 1985 portrait by Andy Warhol of Seymour H. Knox II. It was donated by the families of his two sons, Mr. and Mrs. Seymour H. Knox III and Mrs. and Mrs. Northrup R. Knox, to the Albright-Knox Art Gallery in honor of Seymour H. Knox II for his 60 year contribution as a member of the Buffalo Fine Arts Academy. This is one of a number of celebrity portraits that Warhol produced in this duplicative multicolored style. Many were produced in his early 1960s silkscreen period. Some of the major celebrity portraits of this style include those of Elvis Presley, Elizabeth Taylor, Marilyn Monroe, Jacqueline Kennedy, Mao Zedong and Andy Warhol himself. He also produced similar style works of several other minor celebrities..
Portrait of Vincent Nubiola. Author Name: Joan Miró. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . Portrait of Vincent Nubiola is an oil painting by Spanish artist Joan Miró. Painted in 1917 when Miró was 24 years old, a year before his first exhibition, the portrait is now considered a masterpiece from a period when he experimented with both Cubism and Fauvism. It is also said by some art critics to show the influence of Van Gogh. Acquired for a time by Picasso, the painting is now in the permanent collection of the Folkwang Museum in Essen (Germany).. Portrait of Vincent Nubiola is an oil painting by Spanish artist Joan Miró. Painted in 1917 when Miró was 24 years old, a year before his first exhibition, the portrait is now considered a masterpiece from a period when he experimented with both Cubism and Fauvism. It is also said by some art critics to show the influence of Van Gogh. Acquired for a time by Picasso, the painting is now in the permanent collection of the Folkwang Museum in Essen (Germany)..
Portrait of Vincenzo Mosti. Author Name: Titian. . . Portrait of Vincenzo Mosti is a painting by Titian, executed around 1520 and now housed in the Galleria Palatina of Florence, Italy.. Portrait of Vincenzo Mosti is a painting by Titian, executed around 1520 and now housed in the Galleria Palatina of Florence, Italy..
Portrait of a Kleptomaniac. Author Name: Théodore Géricault. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . Portrait of a Kleptomaniac or Portrait of an Insane Person (French : L'Aliéné or Le Kleptomane) is an 1822 oil painting by Théodore Géricault. It is part of series of ten portraits made for the psychiatrist Étienne-Jean Georget and is currently kept in the Museum of Fine Arts, Ghent, Belgium.. Portrait of a Kleptomaniac or Portrait of an Insane Person (French : L'Aliéné or Le Kleptomane) is an 1822 oil painting by Théodore Géricault. It is part of series of ten portraits made for the psychiatrist Étienne-Jean Georget and is currently kept in the Museum of Fine Arts, Ghent, Belgium..
At the Stock Exchange. Author Name: Edgar Degas. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Portraits at the Stock Exchange (also known as At the Bourse) is a painting by the French artist Edgar Degas. Completed in about 1879, the painting was already in the collection of the French banker Ernest May when it was listed in the catalogue of the fourth Impressionist exhibition that year. It may also have been shown in the next Impressionist exhibit in 1880, but it was not well known until it entered the collections of the Louvre in 1923. The canvas shows an interior corner of the open trading floor of the Paris Stock Exchange (The Paris Bourse). May stands in the center of the picture wearing a top hat and pince-nez, listening to his colleague, a certain M. Bolâtre, leaning over his shoulder. They are likely discussing a document, possibly a bordereau, held aloft by a partially obsc. Portraits at the Stock Exchange (also known as At the Bourse) is a painting by the French artist Edgar Degas. Completed in about 1879, the painting was already in the collection of the French banker Ernest May when it was listed in the catalogue of the fourth Impressionist exhibition that year. It may also have been shown in the next Impressionist exhibit in 1880, but it was not well known until it entered the collections of the Louvre in 1923. The canvas shows an interior corner of the open trading floor of the Paris Stock Exchange (The Paris Bourse). May stands in the center of the picture wearing a top hat and pince-nez, listening to his colleague, a certain M. Bolâtre, leaning over his shoulder. They are likely discussing a document, possibly a bordereau, held aloft by a partially obscured third party. Although the owner and possible commissioner of the work was himself Jewish, Linda Nochlin has interpreted the painting as an anti-Semitic depiction of Jews in Paris, due especially to the exaggerated features and postures of the subjects. In Europe during the late 19th century there were fears of a financial conspiracy, in which Jewish financiers were thought to manipulate business for their gain. Degas's anti-Semitism may have been fueled by the bankruptcy of his own family's banking business, leaving Degas with some degree of resentment toward banking and those who symbolized it, but there is little overt evidence of this attitude until the time of the Dreyfus affair two decades later. The technique of Portraits at the Stock Exchange can be more closely related to Impressionism than many of Degas's earlier works. Evidence for this can be found in the painting's quickly applied, sketchy brushstrokes. The psychological perspective of the painting is one of detachment, a common viewpoint in Impressionist paintings. This painting currently resides in the Musée d'Orsay in Paris. A smaller, pastel sketch of the same subject can be found in the Metropolitan Museum of Art..
Prada Marfa. Author Name: Elmgreen and Dragset. . . Prada Marfa is a permanently installed sculpture by artists Elmgreen and Dragset, situated 1.4 miles (2.3 km) northwest of Valentine, Texas, just off U.S. Highway 90 (US 90), and about 26 miles (42 km) northwest of the city of Marfa. The installation was inaugurated on October 1, 2005. The artists called the work a "pop architectural land art project.". Prada Marfa is a permanently installed sculpture by artists Elmgreen and Dragset, situated 1.4 miles (2.3 km) northwest of Valentine, Texas, just off U.S. Highway 90 (US 90), and about 26 miles (42 km) northwest of the city of Marfa. The installation was inaugurated on October 1, 2005. The artists called the work a "pop architectural land art project." The sculpture, realized with the assistance of American architects Ronald Rael and Virginia San Fratello, cost $80,000 and was intended to never be repaired, so it might slowly degrade back into the natural landscape. This plan was deviated from when, six days after the sculpture was completed, vandals graffitied the exterior, and broke into the building stealing handbags and shoes..
Prince Balthasar Charles With a Dwarf. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Prince Balthasar Charles With a Dwarf is a 1631 portrait by Diego Velázquez of Balthasar Charles, Prince of Asturias and a court dwarf. It is now in the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston.The prince is shown in the uniform of a captain-general (adapted to his infant state but still including a commander's baton in his right hand, a shoulder sash and a sword hilt in his left hand). The dwarf holds an apple and a rattle, to contrast with the heir to the most powerful monarchy in Europe, who is shown as already in military training and not needing these usual children's attributes. The prince's static posture, in contrast to the dynamism of the dwarf's figure, turning to contemplate the prince, has caused some art historians to think that the painting was originally only of the prince, with the dw. Prince Balthasar Charles With a Dwarf is a 1631 portrait by Diego Velázquez of Balthasar Charles, Prince of Asturias and a court dwarf. It is now in the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston. The prince is shown in the uniform of a captain-general (adapted to his infant state but still including a commander's baton in his right hand, a shoulder sash and a sword hilt in his left hand). The dwarf holds an apple and a rattle, to contrast with the heir to the most powerful monarchy in Europe, who is shown as already in military training and not needing these usual children's attributes. The prince's static posture, in contrast to the dynamism of the dwarf's figure, turning to contemplate the prince, has caused some art historians to think that the painting was originally only of the prince, with the dwarf added later..
Punishment of Marsyas. Author Name: Titian. . . The Punishment of Marsyas (also known as The Flaying of Marsyas) is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance artist Titian, painted around 1570-1576. It is currently housed in National Museum in Kroměříž, in the Czech Republic. It's Titian's last finished work.. The Punishment of Marsyas (also known as The Flaying of Marsyas) is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance artist Titian, painted around 1570-1576. It is currently housed in National Museum in Kroměříž, in the Czech Republic. It's Titian's last finished work..
Put Down Your Whip. Author Name: Xu Beihong. . . Put Down Your Whip (Chinese: 放下你的鞭子; pinyin: Fàngxià nǐde biānzi) is a 1939 oil painting by Chinese Realism painter Xu Beihong. Completed during Xu's stay in Singapore, the painting was exhibited numerous times before its disappearance from public view in 1954. It re-emerged in 2007 and was sold for HK$72 million (US$9.2 million) in an auction on 7 April 2007 in Hong Kong, then setting a record for the highest price ever paid for a Chinese painting at an auction.. Put Down Your Whip (Chinese: 放下你的鞭子; pinyin: Fàngxià nǐde biānzi) is a 1939 oil painting by Chinese Realism painter Xu Beihong. Completed during Xu's stay in Singapore, the painting was exhibited numerous times before its disappearance from public view in 1954. It re-emerged in 2007 and was sold for HK$72 million (US$9.2 million) in an auction on 7 April 2007 in Hong Kong, then setting a record for the highest price ever paid for a Chinese painting at an auction..
Rideau, Cruchon et Compotier. Author Name: Paul Cézanne. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Rideau, Cruchon et Compotier is a painting created circa 1893 to 1894 by French artist Paul Cézanne (19 January 1839 – 22 October 1906). It is considered the most expensive still life ever sold at an auction.Cézanne was famous for painting still lifes which expressed complex emotions while still being based upon carefully observed reality. Paintings of this type would eventually lead to the creation of new art styles during the 20th century such as Cubism.. Rideau, Cruchon et Compotier is a painting created circa 1893 to 1894 by French artist Paul Cézanne (19 January 1839 – 22 October 1906). It is considered the most expensive still life ever sold at an auction. Cézanne was famous for painting still lifes which expressed complex emotions while still being based upon carefully observed reality. Paintings of this type would eventually lead to the creation of new art styles during the 20th century such as Cubism..
Rinzen. Author Name: Antoni Tàpies. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Tachisme. . Rinzen is an sculpture by Antoni Tàpies conserved at MACBA, the Contemporary Art Museum of Barcelona.. Rinzen is an sculpture by Antoni Tàpies conserved at MACBA, the Contemporary Art Museum of Barcelona..
Rome, From Mount Aventine. Author Name: J. M. W. Turner. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . Rome, From Mount Aventine is an 1835 painting by J M W Turner, based on drawings made by him in the city in 1828. It shows a view of the city of Rome from the Aventine Hill.It was exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1836, where it was described by the Morning Post as “one of those amazing pictures by which Mr Turner dazzles the imagination and confounds all criticism: it is beyond praise”.. Rome, From Mount Aventine is an 1835 painting by J M W Turner, based on drawings made by him in the city in 1828. It shows a view of the city of Rome from the Aventine Hill. It was exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1836, where it was described by the Morning Post as “one of those amazing pictures by which Mr Turner dazzles the imagination and confounds all criticism: it is beyond praise”. It had been commissioned from Turner by Hugh Andrew Johnstone Munro of Novar and remained in his family collection until it was bought by the 5th Earl of Roseberry in 1878. It then remained in the Roseberry collection until 2014. It was sold at Sotheby's in London on 3 December 2014 to a telephone bidder for £30.3m including buyer’s premium, having had an estimate of £15-20m..
Roskilde Jars. Author Name: Brandes, Peter. . . The Roskilde Jars (Danish: Roskildekrukkerne) stand on the square outside the railway station in Roskilde on the Danish island of Zealand. The three huge jars are 5 m (16 ft) in height and together weigh about 24 tons.The jars are the work of the Danish abstract sculptor Peter Brandes (born 1944). They were commissioned by Elsebeth Stryhn of Stryhns Leverpostej, a local meat paste company, and presented to the city in 1998 on the occasion of Roskilde's 1,000th anniversary.. The Roskilde Jars (Danish: Roskildekrukkerne) stand on the square outside the railway station in Roskilde on the Danish island of Zealand. The three huge jars are 5 m (16 ft) in height and together weigh about 24 tons. The jars are the work of the Danish abstract sculptor Peter Brandes (born 1944). They were commissioned by Elsebeth Stryhn of Stryhns Leverpostej, a local meat paste company, and presented to the city in 1998 on the occasion of Roskilde's 1,000th anniversary. The jars stand in a shallow basin of water, in which they are reflected. The one closest to the station is inscribed with extracts from Henrik Norbrandt's poem Junker Kristoffer, a local hero buried in Roskilde Cathedral in 1363. The colourful glazed jars (two in tones of blue, the third in bronze) are reminiscent of Ancient Greek amphoras. They have accounted for several world records in pottery manufacture. Consisting of several hundred sections fired up to 1,300 C at the Tommerup ceramics factory on the island of Funen, they were assembled by two men who stacked the sections on top of each other..
Roto Broil. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Roto Broil is a 1961 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It was one of the consumer goods paintings made in the early 1960s that "made a splash, sold well and immediately polarized the critics.". Roto Broil is a 1961 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It was one of the consumer goods paintings made in the early 1960s that "made a splash, sold well and immediately polarized the critics.".
Rouen Cathedral, Full Sunlight. Author Name: Claude Monet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Rouen Cathedral series was painted in the 1890s by French impressionist Claude Monet. The paintings in the series each capture the façade of the cathedral at different times of the day and year, and reflect changes in its appearance under different lighting conditions.. The Rouen Cathedral series was painted in the 1890s by French impressionist Claude Monet. The paintings in the series each capture the façade of the cathedral at different times of the day and year, and reflect changes in its appearance under different lighting conditions..
Rough Sea at a Jetty. Author Name: Jacob van Ruisdael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_Golden_Age_painting. . Rough Sea at a Jetty (c. 1650s) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch landscape painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Kimbell Art Museum.This scene is very similar to other paintings Ruisdael made in this period and these often served as inspiration for later painters of seascape.. Rough Sea at a Jetty (c. 1650s) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch landscape painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Kimbell Art Museum. This painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1911, who wrote; "945. A ROUGH SEA, Sm. 2. A storm is coming on. In the centre foreground the waves dash on two jetties. Near a beacon at the end of one jetty, two men with long poles wait to help a fishing-boat which is running under full sail for the harbour. Two other boats ride at anchor near the jetty, to the right. Dark cloudy sky. A " magnificent picture " (Sm.). Canvas, 37 inches by 51 inches. Another example, equally genuine, was in the possession of the London dealers Agnew. Exhibited at the Royal Academy Winter Exhibition, London, 1884, No. 191. Sales. Antony Sijdervelt, Amsterdam, April 23, 1766 (Terw. 519), No. 49 (250 florins, Loquet). Gerard Braamcamp, Amsterdam, July 31, 1771, No. 198 (264 florins, P. Fouquet). Paillet, Paris, July 19, 1802 (1460 francs). Bought privately by Sm. from the family of the Marquis Merialva, 1824 (for 9000 francs), and sold to the Earl of Liverpool (for £500). Sale. Earl of Liverpool, London, March 25, 1829 (£535 Lord Lansdowne). In the collection of the Marquess of Lansdowne, Bowood." This scene is very similar to other paintings Ruisdael made in this period and these often served as inspiration for later painters of seascape..
Saint Eulalia. Author Name: John William Waterhouse. . . Saint Eulalia is an oil painting on canvas in the Pre-Raphaelite style, created in 1885 by English artist John William Waterhouse and currently housed at Tate Britain.. Saint Eulalia is an oil painting on canvas in the Pre-Raphaelite style, created in 1885 by English artist John William Waterhouse and currently housed at Tate Britain..
Saint Praxedis. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . Saint Praxedis is an oil painting attributed to Johannes Vermeer. This attribution has often been questioned. However, in 2014 the auction house Christie's announced the results of new investigations which in their opinion demonstrate conclusively that it is a Vermeer. The painting is a copy of a work by Felice Ficherelli, and depicts the early Roman martyr, Saint Praxedis or Praxedes. It may be Vermeer's earliest surviving work, dating from 1655.. Saint Praxedis is an oil painting attributed to Johannes Vermeer. This attribution has often been questioned. However, in 2014 the auction house Christie's announced the results of new investigations which in their opinion demonstrate conclusively that it is a Vermeer. The painting is a copy of a work by Felice Ficherelli, and depicts the early Roman martyr, Saint Praxedis or Praxedes. It may be Vermeer's earliest surviving work, dating from 1655..
Saint Sebastian Tended by Irene. Author Name: Hendrick ter Brugghen. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Utrecht_Caravaggism. . Saint Sebastian Tended by Irene is an oil-on-canvas painting by Hendrick ter Brugghen dated to 1625. Now in the Allen Memorial Art Museum of Oberlin, Ohio, the piece depicts the Roman Catholic subject of Saint Sebastian being saved by Irene of Rome and her maid following his attempted martyrdom by the Roman authorities. An exemplary piece of the Italianate Baroque tendency in Dutch Golden Age painting, the painting employs dramatic uses of light and skillful chiaroscuro to depict its religious subject, evidence of influence from Caravaggio and Ter Brugghen's fellow Utrecht Caravaggisti.. Saint Sebastian Tended by Irene is an oil-on-canvas painting by Hendrick ter Brugghen dated to 1625. Now in the Allen Memorial Art Museum of Oberlin, Ohio, the piece depicts the Roman Catholic subject of Saint Sebastian being saved by Irene of Rome and her maid following his attempted martyrdom by the Roman authorities. An exemplary piece of the Italianate Baroque tendency in Dutch Golden Age painting, the painting employs dramatic uses of light and skillful chiaroscuro to depict its religious subject, evidence of influence from Caravaggio and Ter Brugghen's fellow Utrecht Caravaggisti. It was described by Seymour Slive as ter Brugghen's "masterpiece": "the large, full, forms of the group have been knit together into a magnificent design, and what could have been hard and sculptural is remarkably softened by the soft, silvery light which plays over Sebastian's half-dead, olive-grey body as well as the reds, creamy whites, and plum colours worn by the women who tend the saint"..
Salutat. Author Name: Thomas Eakins. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Salutat is an 1898 painting by Thomas Eakins (1844–1916). Based on a real-life boxing match that occurred in 1898, the work depicts a boxer waving to the crowd after the match. According to Eakins' biographer Lloyd Goodrich, Salutat is "one of Eakins' finest achievements in figure-painting." The painting's title is Latin for "He greets" or "He salutes.". Salutat is an 1898 painting by Thomas Eakins (1844–1916). Based on a real-life boxing match that occurred in 1898, the work depicts a boxer waving to the crowd after the match. According to Eakins' biographer Lloyd Goodrich, Salutat is "one of Eakins' finest achievements in figure-painting." The painting's title is Latin for "He greets" or "He salutes.".
San Giorgio Maggiore at Dusk. Author Name: Claude Monet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Saint-Georges majeur au crépuscule (Eng: Dusk in Venice, San Giorgio Maggiore by Twilight or Sunset in Venice) is an Impressionist painting by Claude Monet completed between 1908 and 1912. It forms part of a series of views of the monastery-island of San Giorgio Maggiore begun in 1908 during his only visit to Venice.The piece is a life study view of San Giorgio Maggiore, focusing on the Church of San Giorgio Maggiore, its bell tower, against the small island at sunset. To the right are the faintly visible domes of Santa Maria della Salute and the mouth of the Grand Canal.. Saint-Georges majeur au crépuscule (Eng: Dusk in Venice, San Giorgio Maggiore by Twilight or Sunset in Venice) is an Impressionist painting by Claude Monet completed between 1908 and 1912. It forms part of a series of views of the monastery-island of San Giorgio Maggiore begun in 1908 during his only visit to Venice. Monet felt Venice was a city "too beautiful to be painted", which may be why he returned with many paintings unfinished to Giverny, his home in France. However, he had already abandoned his earlier practice of painting from life, in front of the subject; instead he worked on the Venetian scenes at home. The death of his wife Alice in 1911 seems to have been a factor in their completion. In 1912 he held a successful exhibition at the gallery Bernheim-Jeune in Paris, where the painting was acquired by the Welsh art collector Gwendoline Davies.She bequeathed it to the Art Gallery (now National Museum Cardiff) in Cardiff, Wales. The piece is a life study view of San Giorgio Maggiore, focusing on the Church of San Giorgio Maggiore, its bell tower, against the small island at sunset. To the right are the faintly visible domes of Santa Maria della Salute and the mouth of the Grand Canal..
Sappho and Phaon. Author Name: Jacques-Louis David. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . Sappho and Phaon is an 1809 neoclassical painting by the French painter Jacques-Louis David of Cupid, Sappho and her lover Phaon. It was commissioned by Prince Nikolai Yusupov for his Moika Palace and is now the only painting by David in the Hermitage Museum in Saint Petersburg.. Sappho and Phaon is an 1809 neoclassical painting by the French painter Jacques-Louis David of Cupid, Sappho and her lover Phaon. It was commissioned by Prince Nikolai Yusupov for his Moika Palace and is now the only painting by David in the Hermitage Museum in Saint Petersburg. Sappho is shown sitting in a chair at the foot of a bed in a classically decorated room with columns, a marble floor and a view to a rural landscape outside (with Venus's birds, doves, sitting on the doorstep). Phaon stands behind the chair holding a spear and bow. On her knee is a scroll with some of her verses in praise of Phaon and Cupid kneels in front of her, holding up her lyre, which she tries to play with her right hand whilst leaning her head back to let Phaon cradle her head in his left arm..
Satire on False Perspective. Author Name: William  Hogarth. . . Satire on False Perspective is the title of an engraving produced by William Hogarth in 1754 for his friend Joshua Kirby's pamphlet on linear perspective.The intent of the work is clearly given by the subtitle:. Satire on False Perspective is the title of an engraving produced by William Hogarth in 1754 for his friend Joshua Kirby's pamphlet on linear perspective. The intent of the work is clearly given by the subtitle:.
Scipio Africanus Freeing Massiva. Author Name: Giovanni Battista Tiepolo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Rococo. . Scipio Africanus Freeing Massiva is a painting depicting a scene from ancient Roman history by the Venetian artist Giovanni Battista Tiepolo.. Scipio Africanus Freeing Massiva is a painting depicting a scene from ancient Roman history by the Venetian artist Giovanni Battista Tiepolo..
Self-Portrait in a Striped T-shirt. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . Self-Portrait in a Striped T-shirt (1906) is a painting in oil on canvas by Henri Matisse from his Fauvism period, in the collection of Statens Museum for Kunst, Copenhagen, Denmark.. Self-Portrait in a Striped T-shirt (1906) is a painting in oil on canvas by Henri Matisse from his Fauvism period, in the collection of Statens Museum for Kunst, Copenhagen, Denmark..
Self-portrait without beard. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Self-portrait without beard is an 1889 oil on canvas painting by the post-impressionist artist Vincent van Gogh. The picture, which may have been Van Gogh's last self-portrait, was painted in September that year. The self-portrait is one of the most expensive paintings of all time, selling for $71.5 million in 1998 in New York. At the time, it was the third (or an inflation-adjusted fourth) most expensive painting ever sold.. Self-portrait without beard is an 1889 oil on canvas painting by the post-impressionist artist Vincent van Gogh. The picture, which may have been Van Gogh's last self-portrait, was painted in September that year. The self-portrait is one of the most expensive paintings of all time, selling for $71.5 million in 1998 in New York. At the time, it was the third (or an inflation-adjusted fourth) most expensive painting ever sold. Art historians are divided as to whether this painting or Self-portrait is Van Gogh's final self-portrait. Ronald Pickvance consider this to be the last, while Ingo F Walther and Jan Hulsker think Self-portrait was the later painting. It was given by van Gogh to his mother as a birthday gift..
The Serenade. Author Name: Judith Leyster. . . The Serenade is an oil painting by Judith Leyster in the collection of the Rijksmuseum. It was attributed for centuries to Frans Hals until Wilhelm von Bode saw it in the Six collection in 1883. He noticed the prominent "J" in the signature, and attributed it to Jan Hals. This is one of seven paintings first properly attributed to Leyster by Hofstede de Groot ten years later in 1893.. The Serenade is an oil painting by Judith Leyster in the collection of the Rijksmuseum. It was attributed for centuries to Frans Hals until Wilhelm von Bode saw it in the Six collection in 1883. He noticed the prominent "J" in the signature, and attributed it to Jan Hals. This is one of seven paintings first properly attributed to Leyster by Hofstede de Groot ten years later in 1893..
Shirley Temple,. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Shirley Temple, The Youngest, Most Sacred Monster of the Cinema in Her Time (or Shirley Temple, The Youngest, Most Sacred Monster of Contemporary Cinema), also known as the Barcelona Sphinx is a 1939 artwork in gouache, pastel and collage on cardboard, by surrealist painter Salvador Dalí. It measures 75 cm x 100 cm (29.5 inches x 39.5 inches). It is housed in the Netherlands, at Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen, Rotterdam's principal art gallery.. Shirley Temple, The Youngest, Most Sacred Monster of the Cinema in Her Time (or Shirley Temple, The Youngest, Most Sacred Monster of Contemporary Cinema), also known as the Barcelona Sphinx is a 1939 artwork in gouache, pastel and collage on cardboard, by surrealist painter Salvador Dalí. It measures 75 cm x 100 cm (29.5 inches x 39.5 inches). It is housed in the Netherlands, at Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen, Rotterdam's principal art gallery. The painting depicts the child star Shirley Temple as a sphinx. Shirley Temple's head, taken from a newspaper photograph, is superimposed on the body of a red lioness with breasts and white claws. On top of the head is a vampire bat. Surrounding the sphinx are a human skull and other bones, suggesting her latest kill. At the bottom of the painting is a trompe-l'œil label that reads: "Shirley!. at last in Technicolor." The painting has been described as a satire on the sexualization of child stars by Hollywood. The painting was first shown at an exhibition held at the Julien Levy Gallery, New York, from March 21 to April 18, 1939 (although the exhibition catalogue does not mention the painting, an article in the New York Times mentions its presence). It has also been exhibited in 1983 at the Palau Reial de Pedralbes in Barcelona, in 1985 at the Palais des Beaux Arts in Charleroi, and again in Barcelona in 2004, at the CaixaForum. From June 1 to September 9, 2007 it was one of around 100 Dalí works on display at the Tate Modern in London as part of the "Dalí And Film" exhibition..
Slave Market with the Disappearing Bust of Voltaire. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Slave Market with the Disappearing Bust of Voltaire (1940) is a painting by Spanish Surrealist Salvador Dalí. The painting depicts a slave market, while a woman at a booth watches some people. A variety of people seem to make up the face of Voltaire, while the face seems to be positioned on an object to form a bust.The painting was completed in 1940. Dalí describes his work on the painting "to make the abnormal look normal and the normal look abnormal.". Slave Market with the Disappearing Bust of Voltaire (1940) is a painting by Spanish Surrealist Salvador Dalí. The painting depicts a slave market, while a woman at a booth watches some people. A variety of people seem to make up the face of Voltaire, while the face seems to be positioned on an object to form a bust. The painting was completed in 1940. Dalí describes his work on the painting "to make the abnormal look normal and the normal look abnormal.".
Sleeping Hermaphroditus. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Sleeping Hermaphroditus is an ancient marble sculpture depicting Hermaphroditus life size, reclining on a mattress sculpted by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini in 1620. The form is partly derived from ancient portrayals of Venus and other female nudes, and partly from contemporaneous feminised Hellenistic portrayals of Dionysus/Bacchus. It represents a subject that was much repeated in Hellenistic times and in ancient Rome, to judge from the number of versions that have survived. Discovered at Santa Maria della Vittoria, Rome, the Sleeping Hermaphroditus was immediately claimed by Cardinal Scipione Borghese and became part of the Borghese Collection. The "Borghese Hermaphroditus" was later sold to the occupying French and was moved to The Louvre, where it is on display today.. The Sleeping Hermaphroditus is an ancient marble sculpture depicting Hermaphroditus life size, reclining on a mattress sculpted by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini in 1620. The form is partly derived from ancient portrayals of Venus and other female nudes, and partly from contemporaneous feminised Hellenistic portrayals of Dionysus/Bacchus. It represents a subject that was much repeated in Hellenistic times and in ancient Rome, to judge from the number of versions that have survived. Discovered at Santa Maria della Vittoria, Rome, the Sleeping Hermaphroditus was immediately claimed by Cardinal Scipione Borghese and became part of the Borghese Collection. The "Borghese Hermaphroditus" was later sold to the occupying French and was moved to The Louvre, where it is on display today. The Sleeping Hermaphroditus has been described as a good early Imperial Roman copy of a bronze original by the later of the two Hellenistic sculptors named Polycles (working ca 155 BC); the original bronze was mentioned in Pliny's Natural History..
Snow Storm. Author Name: J. M. W. Turner. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . Snow Storm, or Snow Storm: Steam-Boat off a Harbour's Mouth, (full title: Snow Storm - Steam-Boat off a Harbour's Mouth Making Signals in Shallow Water, and going by the Lead. The Author was in this Storm on the Night the "Ariel" left Harwich) is a painting by the English artist J. M. W. Turner (1775 - 1851) from 1842.Though panned by many contemporary critics, critic John Ruskin commented in 1843 that it was "one of the very grandest statements of sea-motion, mist and light, that has ever been put on canvas".. Snow Storm, or Snow Storm: Steam-Boat off a Harbour's Mouth, (full title: Snow Storm - Steam-Boat off a Harbour's Mouth Making Signals in Shallow Water, and going by the Lead. The Author was in this Storm on the Night the "Ariel" left Harwich) is a painting by the English artist J. M. W. Turner (1775 - 1851) from 1842. Though panned by many contemporary critics, critic John Ruskin commented in 1843 that it was "one of the very grandest statements of sea-motion, mist and light, that has ever been put on canvas"..
Madonna Solly. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Solly Madonna by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael was painted somewhere between 1500 and 1504.An early work, it clearly shows the influence of Raphael's teacher Perugino. Two motifs in this work would recur in later Madonnas by Raphael. The virgin Mary is reading a book, as in the Madonna and Child in the Norton Simon Museum, the Connestabile Madonna, the Madonna Colonna and the Madonna del cardellino. As in that last painting a small bird, a goldfinch, is part of the scene.. The Solly Madonna by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael was painted somewhere between 1500 and 1504. An early work, it clearly shows the influence of Raphael's teacher Perugino. Two motifs in this work would recur in later Madonnas by Raphael. The virgin Mary is reading a book, as in the Madonna and Child in the Norton Simon Museum, the Connestabile Madonna, the Madonna Colonna and the Madonna del cardellino. As in that last painting a small bird, a goldfinch, is part of the scene. The painting is located in the Gemäldegalerie, Berlin. It is called the Solly Madonna because it was owned by the British banker and art collector Edward Solly (1776–1848)..
Souvenir de Mortefontaine. Author Name: Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Souvenir de Mortefontaine (Recollection of Mortefontaine) is an 1864 oil-on-canvas painting by French artist Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot. It is a scene of tranquillity: a woman and children quietly enjoying themselves by a glass-flat, tree-flanked lake.Souvenir de Mortefontaine was purchased in 1864 for the French state directly from Corot through Napoleon III's Civil List, and after hanging at Fontainebleau for 25 years it was transferred to the Louvre in 1889.. Souvenir de Mortefontaine (Recollection of Mortefontaine) is an 1864 oil-on-canvas painting by French artist Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot. It is a scene of tranquillity: a woman and children quietly enjoying themselves by a glass-flat, tree-flanked lake. Generally acknowledged as one of his masterpieces, it is among the most successful of Corot's later, more poetic works. The painting captures an idealized scene while still drawing from the real world. Corot's early painting showed Realist leanings, but as his career progressed he began to combine more Romantic elements, and his works are often viewed as a bridge between Realism and the evolving Impressionist movement. Souvenir de Mortefontaine verges on the Impressionistic, with the lake and landscape captured by broad rather than detailed strokes and Corot's careful attention to the play of light within the scene, though the brushwork is precise and the painting has a more muted palette than the bright colours favoured by the Impressionists. The indistinct features are reminiscent of the blurry details of early landscape photography; Corot had a large collection of these photographs and may have been attempting to recreate the effect in paint. Mortefontaine is a small village in the Oise département in northern France. Corot made frequent visits to the area in the 1850s to study the effects of light and reflection on water. In Souvenir de Mortefontaine Corot was not producing a scene from life, but (as the title suggests) his recollections of his visits and the play of light on the ponds in the village. Corot produced a second similar painting, The Boatman of Mortefontaine (1865–70), which shows the same lake and trees from the same perspective. Changes in the features of the landscape in The Boatman from those depicted in Souvenir hint at the paintings being generalised impressions rather than details captured from life. Souvenir de Mortefontaine was purchased in 1864 for the French state directly from Corot through Napoleon III's Civil List, and after hanging at Fontainebleau for 25 years it was transferred to the Louvre in 1889..
Spindle. Author Name: Shuler, Dan. . . Spindle was a sculpture created in 1989 by artist Dustin Shuler (1948–2010). It consisted of a 50 foot spike with eight cars impaled on it.. Spindle was a sculpture created in 1989 by artist Dustin Shuler (1948–2010). It consisted of a 50 foot spike with eight cars impaled on it..
St. Francis in Ecstasy. Author Name: Giovanni Bellini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Ecstasy of St. Francis (or St. Francis in the Desert) is a painting by Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini, started in 1475 and completed around 1480. It is in the Frick Collection in New York City, displayed prominently in what was Henry Clay Frick, an American industrialist, financier, and art patron's living room. The painting is oil on panel and shows the influence of Andrea Mantegna, who was the painter's brother-in-law. It is signed IOANNES BELLINVS on a small, creased carta visible in the lower left corner. The painting is now in the Frick Collection and it is considered as one of its finest assets.. The Ecstasy of St. Francis (or St. Francis in the Desert) is a painting by Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini, started in 1475 and completed around 1480. It is in the Frick Collection in New York City, displayed prominently in what was Henry Clay Frick, an American industrialist, financier, and art patron's living room. The painting is oil on panel and shows the influence of Andrea Mantegna, who was the painter's brother-in-law. It is signed IOANNES BELLINVS on a small, creased carta visible in the lower left corner. The painting is now in the Frick Collection and it is considered as one of its finest assets..
St. Jerome in His Study. Author Name: Antonello da Messina. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . St. Jerome in His Study is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Antonello da Messina, thought to have been completed around 1460–1475. It is in the collection of the National Gallery, London.The picture was painted by Antonello during his Venetian sojourn, and was the property of Antonio Pasqualino.. St. Jerome in His Study is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Antonello da Messina, thought to have been completed around 1460–1475. It is in the collection of the National Gallery, London. The picture was painted by Antonello during his Venetian sojourn, and was the property of Antonio Pasqualino..
St. John the Baptist in the Wilderness. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . St. John the Baptist in the Wilderness is an oil painting by Hieronymus Bosch. The painting was acquired by the Spanish collector Lázaro Galdiano in 1913. It is on display in the Museo Lázaro Galdiano, in Madrid, Spain.. St. John the Baptist in the Wilderness is an oil painting by Hieronymus Bosch. The painting was acquired by the Spanish collector Lázaro Galdiano in 1913. It is on display in the Museo Lázaro Galdiano, in Madrid, Spain. The painting forms a pair with St. John the Evangelist on Patmos which is in Berlin. In the 1940s it was noticed that the two paintings could have been designed as the wings of an altarpiece. It has since been suggested that the altarpiece in question was an artwork which is known to have been made for St. John's Cathedral, 's-Hertogenbosch. The painting is difficult to date. If the 's-Hertogenbosch hypothesis is correct, the date would be around 1489, although later dates have been proposed based on other criteria. John the Baptist is often depicted with a lamb. The animal is said to symbolise the sacrifice of the saint as an innocent victim of the wickedness of mankind, or it could be that the saint is pointing towards Jesus Christ, whose symbol is the pascal lamb (John 1:29-36). Bosch's painting differs from other paintings of John the Baptist in the fantastical objects he carefully depicts..
St. John on Patmos. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . St. John on Patmos is a painting by Hieronymus Bosch. The painting is currently in the Gemäldegalerie, in Berlin, Germany.The reverse is also painted, the title of that picture is Scenes from the Passion of Christ and the Pelican with Her Young.. St. John on Patmos is a painting by Hieronymus Bosch. The painting is currently in the Gemäldegalerie, in Berlin, Germany.The reverse is also painted, the title of that picture is Scenes from the Passion of Christ and the Pelican with Her Young..
St. Quentin. Author Name: Pontormo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . St. Quentin is a painting attributed to the Italian Renaissance master Jacopo Pontormo. According to Giorgio Vasari's Vite, one of Pontormo's pupils, Gianmaria Pichi, was commissioned by his hometown of Sansepolcro a processional standard with the figure of St. Quentin; Pontormo decided to collaborate on the work, at the extent that he finished to complete most of it. The saint's posture resembles that of the "Dying Slave" by Michelangelo: the fact that Pontormo was friend of the latter, confirms the attribution.. St. Quentin is a painting attributed to the Italian Renaissance master Jacopo Pontormo. According to Giorgio Vasari's Vite, one of Pontormo's pupils, Gianmaria Pichi, was commissioned by his hometown of Sansepolcro a processional standard with the figure of St. Quentin; Pontormo decided to collaborate on the work, at the extent that he finished to complete most of it. The saint's posture resembles that of the "Dying Slave" by Michelangelo: the fact that Pontormo was friend of the latter, confirms the attribution. The position of the nails in St. Quentin's body is directly inspired to Jacopo da Varagine's Legenda Aurea..
St Martin-in-the-Fields. Author Name: Logsdail, William. . . St Martin-in-the-Fields is a painting of a child street vendor in Trafalgar Square, painted by William Logsdail from 1888.. St Martin-in-the-Fields is a painting of a child street vendor in Trafalgar Square, painted by William Logsdail from 1888..
Stag at Sharkey's. Author Name: George Bellows. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/American_realism. . A Stag at Sharkey's is a 1909 oil painting by George Wesley Bellows depicting two boxers fighting in the private athletic club situated across from his studio. It is part of the Ashcan School movement known in particular for depicting scenes of daily life in early twentieth century New York City, often in the city's poorer neighborhoods. Bellows used quick strokes to create a blurred image, simulating the two fighters in motion. He also chose a low point of view to put the viewer among the crowd watching the fight.. A Stag at Sharkey's is a 1909 oil painting by George Wesley Bellows depicting two boxers fighting in the private athletic club situated across from his studio. It is part of the Ashcan School movement known in particular for depicting scenes of daily life in early twentieth century New York City, often in the city's poorer neighborhoods. Bellows used quick strokes to create a blurred image, simulating the two fighters in motion. He also chose a low point of view to put the viewer among the crowd watching the fight. Participants in the boxing ring were usually members of the club, but occasionally outsiders would fight with temporary memberships. These fighters were known as "stags". The painting has been a part of the Cleveland Museum of Art's permanent collection since 1922..
Starry Night over the Rhone. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Starry Night Over the Rhone (September 1888) is one of Vincent van Gogh's paintings of Arles at night time. It was painted at a spot on the bank of the Rhone River that was only a one or two-minute walk from the Yellow House on the Place Lamartine which Van Gogh was renting at the time. The night sky and the effects of light at night provided the subject for some of his more famous paintings, including Cafe Terrace at Night (painted earlier the same month) and the later canvas from Saint-Rémy, The Starry Night.. Starry Night Over the Rhone (September 1888) is one of Vincent van Gogh's paintings of Arles at night time. It was painted at a spot on the bank of the Rhone River that was only a one or two-minute walk from the Yellow House on the Place Lamartine which Van Gogh was renting at the time. The night sky and the effects of light at night provided the subject for some of his more famous paintings, including Cafe Terrace at Night (painted earlier the same month) and the later canvas from Saint-Rémy, The Starry Night. A sketch of the painting is included in a letter van Gogh sent to his friend Eugène Boch on October 2, 1888. The painting was first exhibited in 1889 at the annual exhibition of the Société des Artistes Indépendants in Paris, together with the Irises. The latter was added by Theo, while Vincent had proposed one of his paintings from the public gardens in Arles, most probably the version now in the Phillips Collection..
Winston Churchill. Author Name: Roberts-Jones, Ivor. . . The statue of Winston Churchill in Parliament Square, London, is a bronze sculpture of the former British Prime Minister Sir Winston Churchill, created by Ivor Roberts-Jones.It is located on a spot referred to in the 1950s by Churchill as "where my statue will go". Unveiled by his widow Lady Clementine Spencer-Churchill in 1973, the unveiling was attended by the serving Prime Minister and four former Prime Ministers, while Queen Elizabeth II gave a speech.The statue is one of eight on the central green of Parliament Square, all of well-known statesmen.. The statue of Winston Churchill in Parliament Square, London, is a bronze sculpture of the former British Prime Minister Sir Winston Churchill, created by Ivor Roberts-Jones. It is located on a spot referred to in the 1950s by Churchill as "where my statue will go". Unveiled by his widow Lady Clementine Spencer-Churchill in 1973, the unveiling was attended by the serving Prime Minister and four former Prime Ministers, while Queen Elizabeth II gave a speech. The statue is one of eight on the central green of Parliament Square, all of well-known statesmen..
Stele II. Author Name: Ellsworth Kelly. . . Stele II is an abstract sculpture, constructed in 1973, by Ellsworth Kelly.Located at the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden, it reflects the artist's move to the countryside, and landscape.. Stele II is an abstract sculpture, constructed in 1973, by Ellsworth Kelly. Located at the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden, it reflects the artist's move to the countryside, and landscape..
Vase with Oleanders. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Vase with Oleanders was made in 1888 by Vincent van Gogh. The work's location is unknown and it is possibly stolen or possibly destroyed.. Vase with Oleanders was made in 1888 by Vincent van Gogh. The work's location is unknown and it is possibly stolen or possibly destroyed..
Vase with Pink Roses. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Still Life: Vase with Pink Roses was made in 1890 by Vincent van Gogh in Saint-Rémy. At the time the work was painted Van Gogh was readying himself to leave the Saint-Rémy asylum for the quiet town of Auvers-sur-Oise outside of Paris. The painting reflects the optimism Van Gogh felt at that time about his future, both in his choice of flowers as a subject and the colors used. The painting is owned by the National Gallery of Art of Washington, D.C.. Still Life: Vase with Pink Roses was made in 1890 by Vincent van Gogh in Saint-Rémy. At the time the work was painted Van Gogh was readying himself to leave the Saint-Rémy asylum for the quiet town of Auvers-sur-Oise outside of Paris. The painting reflects the optimism Van Gogh felt at that time about his future, both in his choice of flowers as a subject and the colors used. The painting is owned by the National Gallery of Art of Washington, D.C..
Still Life with Geraniums. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . Still Life with Geraniums is a 1910 oil on canvas painting by Henri Matisse.It is in the collection of Pinakothek der Moderne, Munich, Germany, to whom it was given in 1912, thus becoming, according to the museum, the first Matisse to enter a public collection. It was one of six paintings in the museum's collection to survive World War II.. Still Life with Geraniums is a 1910 oil on canvas painting by Henri Matisse. It is in the collection of Pinakothek der Moderne, Munich, Germany, to whom it was given in 1912, thus becoming, according to the museum, the first Matisse to enter a public collection. It was one of six paintings in the museum's collection to survive World War II. The painting should not be confused with Matisse's 1906 painting Still Life with a Geranium, which is held by the Art Institute of Chicago, or his 1912 painting Pot of Geraniums in the National Gallery of Art. (Juan Gris also painted Pot of Geraniums in 1915, sold at auction in 2007.).
Still Life with Lemons, Oranges and a Rose. Author Name: Francisco Zurbarán. . Author Movement: Caravaggisti. . Still Life with Lemons, Oranges and a Rose is an oil-on-canvas painting by Baroque Spanish artist Francisco de Zurbarán completed in 1633. It is currently displayed at the Norton Simon Museum in Pasadena, California as part of its permanent collection. It holds the distinction of being the only still life that was signed and dated by the artist and is considered a masterwork of the genre.. Still Life with Lemons, Oranges and a Rose is an oil-on-canvas painting by Baroque Spanish artist Francisco de Zurbarán completed in 1633. It is currently displayed at the Norton Simon Museum in Pasadena, California as part of its permanent collection. It holds the distinction of being the only still life that was signed and dated by the artist and is considered a masterwork of the genre..
Still Life with Old Shoe. Author Name: Joan Miró. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . Still Life with Old Shoe is a 1937 oil painting by Joan Miró, now part of the permanent collection of the Museum of Modern Art in New York. The work was given to the museum by James Thrall Soby in 1970.. Still Life with Old Shoe is a 1937 oil painting by Joan Miró, now part of the permanent collection of the Museum of Modern Art in New York. The work was given to the museum by James Thrall Soby in 1970..
Still Life with Profile of Laval. Author Name: Paul Gauguin. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Still Life with Profile of Laval is an 1886 oil painting by French artist Paul Gauguin, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It depicts Gauguin's friend Charles Laval in profile with an assortment of inanimate objects, including a ceramic pot Gauguin made himself.. Still Life with Profile of Laval is an 1886 oil painting by French artist Paul Gauguin, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It depicts Gauguin's friend Charles Laval in profile with an assortment of inanimate objects, including a ceramic pot Gauguin made himself..
Still Life with a Chinese Porcelain Jar. Author Name: Kalf, Willem. . . Still Life with a Chinese Porcelain Jar is a 1669 oil painting by Dutch artist Willem Kalf, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It is a sumptuous still life displaying the sort of costly wares that flowed through the Netherlands during its heyday as a trade center.. Still Life with a Chinese Porcelain Jar is a 1669 oil painting by Dutch artist Willem Kalf, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It is a sumptuous still life displaying the sort of costly wares that flowed through the Netherlands during its heyday as a trade center..
Still Water. Author Name: Fiddian-Green, Nic. . . Still Water is a 2011 outdoor bronze sculpture of a horse's head by Nic Fiddian-Green, located at Marble Arch in London, United Kingdom.The 33 feet (10 m) piece was commissioned to replace an earlier and similar, but slightly smaller, work, Horse at Water. This was installed at the same site temporarily, but then moved to Daylesford, Gloucestershire, the home of Sir Anthony and Lady Carole Bamford, who had commissioned it.In 2012, Fiddian-Green cleaned the sculpture himself, using a cherry picker. He said:. Still Water is a 2011 outdoor bronze sculpture of a horse's head by Nic Fiddian-Green, located at Marble Arch in London, United Kingdom. The 33 feet (10 m) piece was commissioned to replace an earlier and similar, but slightly smaller, work, Horse at Water. This was installed at the same site temporarily, but then moved to Daylesford, Gloucestershire, the home of Sir Anthony and Lady Carole Bamford, who had commissioned it. In 2012, Fiddian-Green cleaned the sculpture himself, using a cherry picker. He said:.
Stormy Sea in Étretat. Author Name: Claude Monet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Stormy Sea in Étretat is an 1883 painting by founder of French impressionist Claude Monet, now preserved at the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Lyon.The painting depicts a stormy sea on a winter day. The cliff that can be seen is that of Étretat (Seine Maritime), as Monet stayed in the city many times from the winter 1864-1865, and wrote: "I spend my time outdoors on the stone when it's big time [...] and of course I work all the time." Monet composed the painting in February 1883 from the window of the hotel he lived then. Subsequently, the painting was bought by the Parisian dealer Paul Durand-Ruel, then became the property of the Museum of Fine Arts in Lyon in 1902. The museum thus became a precursor gaining early in the twentieth century Impressionist paintings.. The Stormy Sea in Étretat is an 1883 painting by founder of French impressionist Claude Monet, now preserved at the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Lyon. The painting depicts a stormy sea on a winter day. The cliff that can be seen is that of Étretat (Seine Maritime), as Monet stayed in the city many times from the winter 1864-1865, and wrote: "I spend my time outdoors on the stone when it's big time [...] and of course I work all the time." Monet composed the painting in February 1883 from the window of the hotel he lived then. Subsequently, the painting was bought by the Parisian dealer Paul Durand-Ruel, then became the property of the Museum of Fine Arts in Lyon in 1902. The museum thus became a precursor gaining early in the twentieth century Impressionist paintings. The painting is composed of four major elements, each painted in a different way. The central part is invaded by the pearlized surfs painted in forms of commas. In the foreground, a small beach on which there are old boats filled with thatch on the left, and two fishermen with their boats in poor condition that ran aground on the shore. On the left, in the background, the cliff of Étretat can be seen and the rock strata are evoked by horizontal lines of brush. Finally, the upper part of the painting shows the sky, painted in a way that expresses a curtain of rain..
Studies of the Fetus in the Womb. Author Name: Leonardo da Vinci. . . Studies of the Fetus in the Womb are two colored annotated sketches by Leonardo da Vinci made in 1510–1512/13. The studies correctly depict the human fetus in its proper position inside the dissected uterus. Da Vinci depicted the uterus with one chamber, in contrast to theories that the uterus had multiple chambers which many believed divided fetuses into separate compartments in the case of twins. Da Vinci also correctly draw the uterine artery and the vascular system of the cervix and vagina.. Studies of the Fetus in the Womb are two colored annotated sketches by Leonardo da Vinci made in 1510–1512/13. The studies correctly depict the human fetus in its proper position inside the dissected uterus. Da Vinci depicted the uterus with one chamber, in contrast to theories that the uterus had multiple chambers which many believed divided fetuses into separate compartments in the case of twins. Da Vinci also correctly draw the uterine artery and the vascular system of the cervix and vagina..
Sudden Shower over Shin-Ōhashi bridge and Atake. Author Name: Hiroshige. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Utagawa_school. . Sudden Shower over Shin-Ōhashi bridge and Atake (大はしあたけの夕立 Ōhashi atake no yūdachi) is a woodblock print in the ukiyo-e genre by the Japanese artist Hiroshige. It was published in 1857 as part of the series One Hundred Famous Views of Edo and is one of the best known of Hiroshige's prints.. Sudden Shower over Shin-Ōhashi bridge and Atake (大はしあたけの夕立 Ōhashi atake no yūdachi) is a woodblock print in the ukiyo-e genre by the Japanese artist Hiroshige. It was published in 1857 as part of the series One Hundred Famous Views of Edo and is one of the best known of Hiroshige's prints..
Sun God. Author Name: Niki de Saint Phalle. . . Sun God is a statue by French sculptor Niki de Saint Phalle located on the campus of the University of California, San Diego. The statue is a 14-foot multicolored bird-like creature, perched atop a 15-foot-tall horseshoe-shaped rock pedestal.. Sun God is a statue by French sculptor Niki de Saint Phalle located on the campus of the University of California, San Diego. The statue is a 14-foot multicolored bird-like creature, perched atop a 15-foot-tall horseshoe-shaped rock pedestal. Erected in February 1983 as a part of the Stuart Collection of public art projects, the fiberglass Sun God has become a unique feature on the UCSD campus. It is located on a grassy area between the Faculty Club and Mandeville Auditorium, on the eastern periphery of the John Muir College campus. Since the 1980s the UCSD Associated Students organization has sponsored an annual event, the Sun God Festival, with the statue as its official mascot. Over the years numerous visual-arts students have accessorized the statue with items such as sunglasses, a cap and gown, an ID card, a large, water-spraying phallus, and even a nest with eggs painted in the statue's trademark bright colors..
Sunrise with Sea Monsters. Author Name: J. M. W. Turner. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . Sunrise with Sea Monsters is an oil painting by English artist J. M. W. Turner. It is in the permanent collection of Tate Britain.. Sunrise with Sea Monsters is an oil painting by English artist J. M. W. Turner. It is in the permanent collection of Tate Britain..
Surrender of Lord Cornwallis. Author Name: John Trumbull. . . The Surrender of Lord Cornwallis is an oil painting by John Trumbull. The painting was completed in 1820, and hangs in the rotunda of the United States Capitol in Washington, D. C.The painting depicts the surrender of British Major General Charles, Earl Cornwallis at Yorktown, Virginia on October 19, 1781, ending the Siege of Yorktown, and virtually guaranteeing American independence. Included in the depiction are many leaders of the American troops that took part in the siege.. The Surrender of Lord Cornwallis is an oil painting by John Trumbull. The painting was completed in 1820, and hangs in the rotunda of the United States Capitol in Washington, D. C. The painting depicts the surrender of British Major General Charles, Earl Cornwallis at Yorktown, Virginia on October 19, 1781, ending the Siege of Yorktown, and virtually guaranteeing American independence. Included in the depiction are many leaders of the American troops that took part in the siege..
Surrender of a Confederate Soldier. Author Name: Julian A. Scott. . . Surrender of a Confederate Soldier is an 1873 painting by Julian Scott in the collection of the Smithsonian American Art Museum. The painting depicts an injured soldier of the Confederate States Army in the American Civil War (1861 to 1865) waiving an improvised flag of surrender. The soldier is accompanied by black man and a woman holding an infant: the black man is presumed to be the soldier's slave, and the woman and infant are presumed to be his wife and child.. Surrender of a Confederate Soldier is an 1873 painting by Julian Scott in the collection of the Smithsonian American Art Museum. The painting depicts an injured soldier of the Confederate States Army in the American Civil War (1861 to 1865) waiving an improvised flag of surrender. The soldier is accompanied by black man and a woman holding an infant: the black man is presumed to be the soldier's slave, and the woman and infant are presumed to be his wife and child..
Susanna and the Elders. Author Name: Lorenzo Lotto. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Susanna and the Elders is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Lorenzo Lotto, dating from 1517. It is housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence. The work has the signature LOTUS PICTOR 1517.. Susanna and the Elders is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Lorenzo Lotto, dating from 1517. It is housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence. The work has the signature LOTUS PICTOR 1517..
Swans Reflecting Elephants. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Swans Reflecting Elephants (1937) is a painting by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dalí. This painting is from Dalí's Paranoiac-critical period. Painted using oil on canvas, it contains one of Dalí's famous double images. The double images were a major part of Dalí's "paranoia-critical method," which he put forward in his 1935 essay "The Conquest of the Irrational." He explained his process as a "spontaneous method of irrational understanding based upon the interpretative critical association of delirious phenomena." Dalí used this method to bring forth the hallucinatory forms, double images and visual illusions that filled his paintings during the Thirties. As with the earlier Metamorphosis of Narcissus, Swans Reflecting Elephants uses the reflection in a lake to create the double image s. Swans Reflecting Elephants (1937) is a painting by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dalí. This painting is from Dalí's Paranoiac-critical period. Painted using oil on canvas, it contains one of Dalí's famous double images. The double images were a major part of Dalí's "paranoia-critical method," which he put forward in his 1935 essay "The Conquest of the Irrational." He explained his process as a "spontaneous method of irrational understanding based upon the interpretative critical association of delirious phenomena." Dalí used this method to bring forth the hallucinatory forms, double images and visual illusions that filled his paintings during the Thirties. As with the earlier Metamorphosis of Narcissus, Swans Reflecting Elephants uses the reflection in a lake to create the double image seen in the painting. In Metamorphosis, the reflection of Narcissus is used to mirror the shape of the hand on the right of the picture. Here, the three swans in front of bleak, leafless trees are reflected in the lake so that the swans' necks become the elephants' trunks and the trees become the legs of the elephants. In the background of the painting is a Catalonian landscape depicted in fiery fall colors, the brushwork creating swirls in the cliffs that surround the lake, to contrast with the stillness of the water..
Symphony in White, No. 2: The Little White Girl. Author Name: James Abbott McNeill Whistler. . Author Movement: Founder of Tonalism. . Symphony in White, No. 2, also known as The Little White Girl is a painting by James Abbott McNeill Whistler. The work shows a woman in three-quarter figure standing by a fireplace with a mirror over it. She is holding a fan in her hand, and wearing a white dress. The model is Joanna Hiffernan, the artist's mistress. Though the painting was originally called The Little White Girl, Whistler later started calling it Symphony in White, No. 2. By referring to his work in such abstract terms, he intended to emphasize his "art for art's sake" philosophy. In this painting, Heffernan wears a ring on her ring finger, even though the two were not married. By this religious imagery, Whistler emphasizes the aesthetic philosophy behind his work.. Symphony in White, No. 2, also known as The Little White Girl is a painting by James Abbott McNeill Whistler. The work shows a woman in three-quarter figure standing by a fireplace with a mirror over it. She is holding a fan in her hand, and wearing a white dress. The model is Joanna Hiffernan, the artist's mistress. Though the painting was originally called The Little White Girl, Whistler later started calling it Symphony in White, No. 2. By referring to his work in such abstract terms, he intended to emphasize his "art for art's sake" philosophy. In this painting, Heffernan wears a ring on her ring finger, even though the two were not married. By this religious imagery, Whistler emphasizes the aesthetic philosophy behind his work. Whistler created the painting in the winter of 1864, and it was displayed at the Royal Academy the next year. The original frame carried a poem written by Whistler's friend Algernon Charles Swinburne – titled Before the Mirror – written on sheets of golden paper. The poem was inspired by the painting, and to Whistler this demonstrated that the visual arts need not be subservient to literature. Though there are few clues to the meaning and symbolism of the painting, critics have found allusions to the work of Ingres, as well as oriental elements typical of the popular Japonisme..
Symphony in White, No. 3. Author Name: James Abbott McNeill Whistler. . Author Movement: Founder of Tonalism. . Symphony in White, No. 3, is a painting by James Abbott McNeill Whistler. The work shows two women dressed in white, one sitting on a sofa and the other resting on the floor. The model on the sofa is Joanna Heffernan, the artist's mistress. By calling the painting Symphony in White, No. 3, Whistler intended to emphasise his artistic philosophy of corresponding arts, inspired by the poet Charles Baudelaire. The presence of a fan on the floor shows the influence of Japonisme, which was a popular artistic trend in European art at the time. Whistler was also greatly influenced by his colleague and friend Albert Joseph Moore, and their works show considerable similarities.. Symphony in White, No. 3, is a painting by James Abbott McNeill Whistler. The work shows two women dressed in white, one sitting on a sofa and the other resting on the floor. The model on the sofa is Joanna Heffernan, the artist's mistress. By calling the painting Symphony in White, No. 3, Whistler intended to emphasise his artistic philosophy of corresponding arts, inspired by the poet Charles Baudelaire. The presence of a fan on the floor shows the influence of Japonisme, which was a popular artistic trend in European art at the time. Whistler was also greatly influenced by his colleague and friend Albert Joseph Moore, and their works show considerable similarities. Though Whistler started on the painting in 1865, he was not ready to exhibit it publicly until 1867, when it went on display at the Royal Academy. His colleagues were impressed by the painting, but not all critics fully understood the connection between the painting and its title. One review in particular questioned the presence of other colours in addition to white, a criticism which prompted Whistler to respond with a scathing and sarcastic letter. Years later, Whistler's former student Walter Sickert criticized the painting as "the low-water mark of the old manner, before the birth of the new.".
Taddei Tondo. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Taddei Tondo or The Virgin and Child with the Infant St John is a marble relief tondo (circular composition) by Italian Renaissance artist Michelangelo Buonarroti. Part of the permanent collection of the Royal Academy of Arts in London, it is the only marble sculpture by Michelangelo in Great Britain. A "perfect demonstration" of his carving technique, the work delivers a "powerful emotional and narrative punch".. The Taddei Tondo or The Virgin and Child with the Infant St John is a marble relief tondo (circular composition) by Italian Renaissance artist Michelangelo Buonarroti. Part of the permanent collection of the Royal Academy of Arts in London, it is the only marble sculpture by Michelangelo in Great Britain. A "perfect demonstration" of his carving technique, the work delivers a "powerful emotional and narrative punch"..
Take your son, Sir!. Author Name: Ford Madox Brown. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pre-Raphaelite_Brotherhood. . Take Your Son, Sir! (1851-6) is an unfinished painting by Ford Madox Brown which depicts a woman showing her newborn son to its father. She is offering her baby towards the viewer of the painting, who is implicitly equated with the father - seen in the mirror behind, opening his arms to receive the baby. The mirror also forms a halo behind the mother's head, and the pattern on the wallpaper suggests the starry heavens. Brown's principal influence was Jan van Eyck's painting the Arnolfini Marriage Portrait, recently acquired by the National Gallery. The mirror resembles the circular mirror in van Eyck's painting, which reflects an image of the artist looking at the couple in the image.. Take Your Son, Sir! (1851-6) is an unfinished painting by Ford Madox Brown which depicts a woman showing her newborn son to its father. She is offering her baby towards the viewer of the painting, who is implicitly equated with the father - seen in the mirror behind, opening his arms to receive the baby. The mirror also forms a halo behind the mother's head, and the pattern on the wallpaper suggests the starry heavens. Brown's principal influence was Jan van Eyck's painting the Arnolfini Marriage Portrait, recently acquired by the National Gallery. The mirror resembles the circular mirror in van Eyck's painting, which reflects an image of the artist looking at the couple in the image. The woman is wearing crinolines, which expand to cover the whole of the lower part of the painting. Brown has left this part incomplete, roughly squaring up and sketching the dress in outline. The title is written on the unfinished dress, underneath the child at the right. Brown's own wife was pregnant whilst he was painting this picture and she gave birth to a son which they named Arthur. Arthur then died at just ten months old and it is considered Brown was unable to complete the painting through grief for his son, so he abandoned it..
Tea cup ballet. Author Name: Cotton, Olive. . . Tea cup ballet is a 1935 photograph by Australian modernist photographer Olive Cotton. It is arguably Cotton's best known work. The photographs depicts six tea cups and saucers lit so to form shadows that suggest the form of ballet dancers.The photograph was exhibited in the London Salon of Photography in 1935, the first work of Cotton's to be shown outside Australia.The work was featured on an Australia Post stamp in 1991 commemorating 150 years of photography.. Tea cup ballet is a 1935 photograph by Australian modernist photographer Olive Cotton. It is arguably Cotton's best known work. The photographs depicts six tea cups and saucers lit so to form shadows that suggest the form of ballet dancers. The photograph was exhibited in the London Salon of Photography in 1935, the first work of Cotton's to be shown outside Australia. The work was featured on an Australia Post stamp in 1991 commemorating 150 years of photography..
Temptation of St. Thomas. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Temptation of St. Thomas is a painting by the Spanish Baroque painter Diego Velázquez, executed in 1632 and housed in the Museum of Sacred Art of Orihuela Cathedral, southern Spain.The work, for a period, was attributed to Murcian painter Nicolás de Villacis, until it was recognized as Velázquez's in the 1920s. It portrays the episode of the life of St. Thomas of Aquino when, as a novice, he resisted the temptation represented by a prostitute, who is visible in the background door. The saint is held by an angel, while another is preparing to dress him with a white ribbon, representing chastity.. The Temptation of St. Thomas is a painting by the Spanish Baroque painter Diego Velázquez, executed in 1632 and housed in the Museum of Sacred Art of Orihuela Cathedral, southern Spain. The work, for a period, was attributed to Murcian painter Nicolás de Villacis, until it was recognized as Velázquez's in the 1920s. It portrays the episode of the life of St. Thomas of Aquino when, as a novice, he resisted the temptation represented by a prostitute, who is visible in the background door. The saint is held by an angel, while another is preparing to dress him with a white ribbon, representing chastity..
The Accommodations of Desire. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The Accommodation of Desire is a 1929 surrealist oil painting and mixed media collage on board by Spanish artist Salvador Dalí. Dalí was inspired to create the piece after a walk with his future wife Gala Dalí, who was at the time married to fellow surrealist Paul Éluard, with whom Dalí was having an affair. The painting purportedly represents Dalí's anxiety over the situation, and what the future would hold for him. The painted work consists primarily of seven large pebbles, each with a different symbol that Dalí believed would come to pass as a result of the affair. The piece is perhaps most notable for its use of pasted-on cutouts from a children's book whose visual style bears a striking resemblance to the aesthetic of the painting itself. It is currently housed in the Museum of Modern. The Accommodation of Desire is a 1929 surrealist oil painting and mixed media collage on board by Spanish artist Salvador Dalí. Dalí was inspired to create the piece after a walk with his future wife Gala Dalí, who was at the time married to fellow surrealist Paul Éluard, with whom Dalí was having an affair. The painting purportedly represents Dalí's anxiety over the situation, and what the future would hold for him. The painted work consists primarily of seven large pebbles, each with a different symbol that Dalí believed would come to pass as a result of the affair. The piece is perhaps most notable for its use of pasted-on cutouts from a children's book whose visual style bears a striking resemblance to the aesthetic of the painting itself. It is currently housed in the Museum of Modern Art in New York City..
The Accordionist. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The Accordionist is a 1911 painting by Pablo Picasso. As stated by the title, the painting is meant to portray a man playing an accordion. The division of three-dimensional forms into a two-dimensional plane indicate that the painting is in the style of analytic cubism, which was developed by Picasso and Georges Braque between 1907 and 1914. The onset of cubism is possibly due to Picasso and Braque rebelling against centuries of traditional, realistic art that imitates the natural world.. The Accordionist is a 1911 painting by Pablo Picasso. As stated by the title, the painting is meant to portray a man playing an accordion. The division of three-dimensional forms into a two-dimensional plane indicate that the painting is in the style of analytic cubism, which was developed by Picasso and Georges Braque between 1907 and 1914. The onset of cubism is possibly due to Picasso and Braque rebelling against centuries of traditional, realistic art that imitates the natural world. In earlier stages of analytic cubism, such as Picasso's Carafe, Jug and Fruit Bowl, Picasso begins to break up the subject matter and alter the sense of depth. However, in earlier work there is still a defined sense of the subject's shape and volume. The picture plane is distorted, but not to the same extent as later paintings such as The Accordionist which verge on complete abstraction. Also differentiating early and late analytical cubism is the use of color. In Carafe, Jug and Fruit Bowl Picasso uses color to define the table cloth, bowls, and fruit, allowing the viewer to easily discern the subject matter, despite the slight flattening and separation of the picture plane. The Accordionist on the other hand is almost monochromatic which further camouflages the subject..
The Allegory of Faith. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . The Allegory of Faith, also known as Allegory of the Catholic Faith, is a painting created by Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer in about 1670–72. The painting is currently located at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, and has been since 1931.. The Allegory of Faith, also known as Allegory of the Catholic Faith, is a painting created by Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer in about 1670–72. The painting is currently located at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, and has been since 1931. This and Art of Painting are his only works that fall under history painting in the contemporary hierarchy of genres, though they still have his typical composition of one or two figures in a domestic interior. (The Art of Painting is Vermeer's only other allegory, painted earlier than Allegory of Faith.) Both share several features: the perspective is almost the same, and at the left of each painting is a multicolor tapestry pulled to the left to disclose the scene. The Art of Painting also uses symbolism from Cesare Ripa (of Clio, muse of history). Vermeer's Love Letter uses the same or a similar gilt panel. The Allegory and The Art of Painting differ markedly in style and purpose from Vermeer's other works. Both allegorical paintings show complex meaning, but Allegory of Faith "reveals that the artist's usual focus on naturalistic effects was a stylistic option, to be set aside when the subject called for another approach". The Art of Painting still reads as a naturalistic depiction of an artist and his model, and the pose of the model is simple, whereas the pose of the figure in the The Allegory of Faith is Baroquely dramatic..
The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Nicolaes Tulp. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Nicolaes Tulp is a 1632 oil painting on canvas by Rembrandt housed in the Mauritshuis museum in The Hague, the Netherlands. Dr. Nicolaes Tulp is pictured explaining the musculature of the arm to medical professionals. Some of the spectators are various doctors who paid commissions to be included in the painting. The painting is signed in the top-left hand corner Rembrandt. f[ecit] 1632. This may be the first instance of Rembrandt signing a painting with his forename (in its original form) as opposed to the monogramme RHL (Rembrandt Harmenszoon of Leiden), and is thus a sign of his growing artistic confidence.. The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Nicolaes Tulp is a 1632 oil painting on canvas by Rembrandt housed in the Mauritshuis museum in The Hague, the Netherlands. Dr. Nicolaes Tulp is pictured explaining the musculature of the arm to medical professionals. Some of the spectators are various doctors who paid commissions to be included in the painting. The painting is signed in the top-left hand corner Rembrandt. f[ecit] 1632. This may be the first instance of Rembrandt signing a painting with his forename (in its original form) as opposed to the monogramme RHL (Rembrandt Harmenszoon of Leiden), and is thus a sign of his growing artistic confidence..
The Architect's Dream. Author Name: Thomas Cole. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Hudson_River_School. . The Architect's Dream is a 1840 oil painting created by Thomas Cole for New York architect Ithiel Town. Cole incorporated pieces of architecture from Egyptian, Greek, Roman, and Gothic styles in various different parts of the painting, having dabbled in architecture previously. Cole finished the painting in only five weeks and showed it in the National Academy of Design annual exhibition that year. However, the painting was not well received by Ithiel, who refused to accept the painting because he claimed that it was "exclusively architectural".. The Architect's Dream is a 1840 oil painting created by Thomas Cole for New York architect Ithiel Town. Cole incorporated pieces of architecture from Egyptian, Greek, Roman, and Gothic styles in various different parts of the painting, having dabbled in architecture previously. Cole finished the painting in only five weeks and showed it in the National Academy of Design annual exhibition that year. However, the painting was not well received by Ithiel, who refused to accept the painting because he claimed that it was "exclusively architectural". In a letter written in the late 1830s, Cole stated that: The painting was acquired by the Toledo Museum of Art in 1949..
The Astronomer. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . The Astronomer is a painting finished in about 1668 by the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer. It is oil on canvas, 51 cm x 45 cm (20 x 18 in), and is on display at the Louvre, Paris.Portrayals of scientists were a favourite topic in 17th century Dutch painting and Vermeer's oeuvre includes both this astronomer and the slightly later The Geographer. Both are believed to portray the same man, possibly Antonie van Leeuwenhoek.. The Astronomer is a painting finished in about 1668 by the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer. It is oil on canvas, 51 cm x 45 cm (20 x 18 in), and is on display at the Louvre, Paris. Portrayals of scientists were a favourite topic in 17th century Dutch painting and Vermeer's oeuvre includes both this astronomer and the slightly later The Geographer. Both are believed to portray the same man, possibly Antonie van Leeuwenhoek. The astronomer's profession is shown by the celestial globe (version by Jodocus Hondius) and the book on the table, Metius's Institutiones Astronomicae Geographicae). Symbolically, the volume is open to Book III, a section advising the astronomer to seek "inspiration from God" and the painting on the wall shows the finding of Moses—Moses may represent knowledge and science ("learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians")..
The Balcony. Author Name: Édouard Manet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Balcony (French: Le balcon) is an 1868 oil painting by the French painter Édouard Manet and was exhibited at the Paris Salon of 1869. The painting depicts four figures. On the left is Berthe Morisot, who became in 1874 the wife of Manet's brother, Eugène. In the centre is the painter Jean Baptiste Antoine Guillemet. On the right is Fanny Claus, a violinist. The fourth figure, partially obscured in the interior's background, is possibly Leon Leenhoff, Manet's son. The painting was sold by Gustave Caillebotte in 1884 and is currently kept at the Musée d'Orsay, in Paris.. The Balcony (French: Le balcon) is an 1868 oil painting by the French painter Édouard Manet and was exhibited at the Paris Salon of 1869. The painting depicts four figures. On the left is Berthe Morisot, who became in 1874 the wife of Manet's brother, Eugène. In the centre is the painter Jean Baptiste Antoine Guillemet. On the right is Fanny Claus, a violinist. The fourth figure, partially obscured in the interior's background, is possibly Leon Leenhoff, Manet's son. The painting was sold by Gustave Caillebotte in 1884 and is currently kept at the Musée d'Orsay, in Paris..
The Baptism of Christ. Author Name: Andrea del Verrocchio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Baptism of Christ is a painting finished around 1475 in the studio of the Italian Renaissance painter Andrea del Verrocchio and generally ascribed to him and his pupil Leonardo da Vinci. Some art historians discern the hands of other members of Verrocchio's workshop in the painting as well. The picture depicts the Baptism of Jesus by John the Baptist as recorded in the Biblical Gospels of Matthew, Mark and Luke. The angel to the left is recorded as having been painted by the youthful Leonardo, a fact which has excited so much special comment and mythology, that the importance and value of the picture as a whole and within the œuvre of Verrocchio is often overlooked. Modern critics also attribute much of the landscape in the background and the figure of Christ to Leonardo da Vinci as we. The Baptism of Christ is a painting finished around 1475 in the studio of the Italian Renaissance painter Andrea del Verrocchio and generally ascribed to him and his pupil Leonardo da Vinci. Some art historians discern the hands of other members of Verrocchio's workshop in the painting as well. The picture depicts the Baptism of Jesus by John the Baptist as recorded in the Biblical Gospels of Matthew, Mark and Luke. The angel to the left is recorded as having been painted by the youthful Leonardo, a fact which has excited so much special comment and mythology, that the importance and value of the picture as a whole and within the œuvre of Verrocchio is often overlooked. Modern critics also attribute much of the landscape in the background and the figure of Christ to Leonardo da Vinci as well The painting is housed in the Uffizi Gallery in Florence..
The Basket of Apples. Author Name: Paul Cézanne. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . The Basket of Apples is a still life oil painting by French artist Paul Cézanne. It belongs to the Helen Birch Bartlett Memorial Collection of the Art Institute of Chicago.The piece is often noted for its disjointed perspective. It has been described as a balanced composition due to its unbalanced parts; the tilted bottle, the incline of the basket, and the foreshortened lines of the cookies mesh with the lines of the tablecloth. Additionally, the right side of the tabletop is not in the same plane as the left side, as if the image simultaneously reflects two viewpoints.. The Basket of Apples is a still life oil painting by French artist Paul Cézanne. It belongs to the Helen Birch Bartlett Memorial Collection of the Art Institute of Chicago. The piece is often noted for its disjointed perspective. It has been described as a balanced composition due to its unbalanced parts; the tilted bottle, the incline of the basket, and the foreshortened lines of the cookies mesh with the lines of the tablecloth. Additionally, the right side of the tabletop is not in the same plane as the left side, as if the image simultaneously reflects two viewpoints. Paintings such as this helped form a bridge between Impressionism and Cubism..
The Beaneater. Author Name: Annibale Carracci. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Beaneater (Italian: Mangiafagioli) is a painting by the Italian Baroque painter Annibale Carracci. Dating from 1580-1590 (probably 1583-1585), it is housed in the gallery of Palazzo Colonna of Rome.The painting is connected to the contemporary Butcher's Shop (now at Oxford), for it shares the same popularesque style. Painted in Bologna, it is a broadly and realistically painted still life, which owes much to Flanders and Holland.. The Beaneater (Italian: Mangiafagioli) is a painting by the Italian Baroque painter Annibale Carracci. Dating from 1580-1590 (probably 1583-1585), it is housed in the gallery of Palazzo Colonna of Rome. The painting is connected to the contemporary Butcher's Shop (now at Oxford), for it shares the same popularesque style. Painted in Bologna, it is a broadly and realistically painted still life, which owes much to Flanders and Holland. Carracci was also influenced in the depiction of everyday life subjects by Vincenzo Campi and Bartolomeo Passarotti. Manifest is Carracci's capability to adapt his style, making it "lower" when concerning "lower" subjects like the Mangiafagioli, while in his more academic works (such as the broadly contemporary Assumption of the Virgin) he was able to use a more classicist composure with the same easiness..
The Birth of Venus. Author Name: William-Adolphe Bouguereau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Birth of Venus (French: La Naissance de Vénus) is one of the most famous paintings by 19th-century painter William-Adolphe Bouguereau. It depicts not the actual birth of Venus from the sea, but her transportation in a shell, as a fully mature woman, from the sea to Paphos in Cyprus. She is considered the epitome of the finest expressions of the Classical Greek and Roman ideal of the female form and beauty, on a par with Venus de Milo.. The Birth of Venus (French: La Naissance de Vénus) is one of the most famous paintings by 19th-century painter William-Adolphe Bouguereau. It depicts not the actual birth of Venus from the sea, but her transportation in a shell, as a fully mature woman, from the sea to Paphos in Cyprus. She is considered the epitome of the finest expressions of the Classical Greek and Roman ideal of the female form and beauty, on a par with Venus de Milo. For Bouguereau, it is considered a tour de force. The canvas stands at just over 9 ft 10 in (3.00 m) high, and 7 ft 2 in (2.18 m) wide. The subject matter, as well as the composition, resembles a previous rendition of this subject, Sandro Botticelli's The Birth of Venus, as well as Raphael's The Triumph of Galatea..
The Boat Builders. Author Name: Winslow Homer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Boat Builders is an oil painting on panel by American landscape painter Winslow Homer, which is held in the collection of the Indianapolis Museum of Art (IMA), in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States.. The Boat Builders is an oil painting on panel by American landscape painter Winslow Homer, which is held in the collection of the Indianapolis Museum of Art (IMA), in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States..
The Bohemian. Author Name: William-Adolphe Bouguereau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Bohemian is a painting by William-Adolphe Bouguereau completed in 1890. It depicts a barefooted young woman sitting on a concrete bench on the south bank of the Seine across from Notre Dame de Paris resting a violin in her lap. Her right arm is resting on her thigh while the palm of her left hand is pressed down on her left knee so that she does not lean on the violin. Her hands are clasped with the fingers pointing forward while her shoulders are wrapped in a shawl dyed maroon and light green, and she is wearing a gray dress that extends to her ankles. The bow of the violin has been stuck through diagonally under the fingerboard. To her right is a maple tree.. The Bohemian is a painting by William-Adolphe Bouguereau completed in 1890. It depicts a barefooted young woman sitting on a concrete bench on the south bank of the Seine across from Notre Dame de Paris resting a violin in her lap. Her right arm is resting on her thigh while the palm of her left hand is pressed down on her left knee so that she does not lean on the violin. Her hands are clasped with the fingers pointing forward while her shoulders are wrapped in a shawl dyed maroon and light green, and she is wearing a gray dress that extends to her ankles. The bow of the violin has been stuck through diagonally under the fingerboard. To her right is a maple tree. The subject is a model employed by Bouguereau for this and other paintings, including The Shepherdess. It was owned by the Minneapolis Institute of Art until 2004 when it was auctioned by Christie's to benefit the acquisition fund..
The Bookworm. Author Name: Carl Spitzweg. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Biedermeier. . The Bookworm (German: Der Bücherwurm) is an 1850 oil-on-canvas painting by the German painter and poet Carl Spitzweg. The picture is typical of Spitzweg's humorous, anecdotal style and it is characteristic of Biedermeier art in general. The painting is representative of the introspective and conservative mood in Europe during the period between the end of the Napoleonic Wars and the revolutions of 1848, but at the same time pokes fun at those attitudes by embodying them in the fusty old scholar unconcerned with the affairs of the mundane world.. The Bookworm (German: Der Bücherwurm) is an 1850 oil-on-canvas painting by the German painter and poet Carl Spitzweg. The picture is typical of Spitzweg's humorous, anecdotal style and it is characteristic of Biedermeier art in general. The painting is representative of the introspective and conservative mood in Europe during the period between the end of the Napoleonic Wars and the revolutions of 1848, but at the same time pokes fun at those attitudes by embodying them in the fusty old scholar unconcerned with the affairs of the mundane world..
The Café-Concert. Author Name: Édouard Manet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Impressionist painter, Édouard Manet often captured café scenes depicting social life at the end of the nineteenth century as depicted in this painting, The Café-Concert.. Impressionist painter, Édouard Manet often captured café scenes depicting social life at the end of the nineteenth century as depicted in this painting, The Café-Concert..
The Conjurer. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . The Conjurer is by Dutch painter Hieronymus Bosch and/or his workshop, executed around 1502.There are five versions of this painting and one engraving, but most experts believe the most reliable copy is part of the collection of the Musée Municipal in St.-Germain-en-Laye, which is kept locked in a safe and loaned out on a limited basis for special exhibitions in France and abroad. On 1 December 1978 the painting was stolen from the museum and returned on 2 February 1979.. The Conjurer is by Dutch painter Hieronymus Bosch and/or his workshop, executed around 1502. There are five versions of this painting and one engraving, but most experts believe the most reliable copy is part of the collection of the Musée Municipal in St.-Germain-en-Laye, which is kept locked in a safe and loaned out on a limited basis for special exhibitions in France and abroad. On 1 December 1978 the painting was stolen from the museum and returned on 2 February 1979. The painting comes from the bequest of Louis Alexandre Ducastel, a notary at Saint Germain en Laye from 1813, who was also city council member and mayor in August 1835 and (provisionally) in 1839. The collection seems especially to have been formed by his father John Alexander Ducastel, a painter and collector..
The Conversion of Mary Magdalene. Author Name: Paolo Veronese. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Conversion of Mary Magdalene is an oil painting, an early work by the Italian Renaissance artist based in Venice, Paolo Veronese (1528–1588). He was known for his sumptuous paintings with a dramatic and colourful style. Dating from circa 1545–1548, the painting was commissioned by a noble patron in Verona.. The Conversion of Mary Magdalene is an oil painting, an early work by the Italian Renaissance artist based in Venice, Paolo Veronese (1528–1588). He was known for his sumptuous paintings with a dramatic and colourful style. Dating from circa 1545–1548, the painting was commissioned by a noble patron in Verona..
The Crystal Ball. Author Name: John William Waterhouse. . . The Crystal Ball is a painting by John William Waterhouse completed in 1902. Waterhouse displayed both it and The Missal in the Royal Academy of 1902. The painting shows the influence of the Italian Renaissance with vertical and horizontal lines, along with circles "rather than the pointed arches of the Gothic".Part of a private collection, the painting has been restored to show the skull which had been covered by a previous owner.. The Crystal Ball is a painting by John William Waterhouse completed in 1902. Waterhouse displayed both it and The Missal in the Royal Academy of 1902. The painting shows the influence of the Italian Renaissance with vertical and horizontal lines, along with circles "rather than the pointed arches of the Gothic". Part of a private collection, the painting has been restored to show the skull which had been covered by a previous owner..
The Death of Major Peirson. Author Name: John Singleton Copley. . . The Death of Major Peirson, 6 January 1781 is a 1783 large oil painting by John Singleton Copley. It depicts the death of Major Francis Peirson at the Battle of Jersey on 6 January 1781.The Battle of Jersey was the last French attempt to seize the island of Jersey, and one of the last battles with invading forces from a foreign nation in the British Isles. The invasion was organised privately by Baron Philippe de Rullecourt but funded and supplied by the French government, and was intended to remove the threat that British naval vessel based in Jersey posed to American ships in the American Revolutionary War.. The Death of Major Peirson, 6 January 1781 is a 1783 large oil painting by John Singleton Copley. It depicts the death of Major Francis Peirson at the Battle of Jersey on 6 January 1781. The Battle of Jersey was the last French attempt to seize the island of Jersey, and one of the last battles with invading forces from a foreign nation in the British Isles. The invasion was organised privately by Baron Philippe de Rullecourt but funded and supplied by the French government, and was intended to remove the threat that British naval vessel based in Jersey posed to American ships in the American Revolutionary War. Approximately 1,000 French soldiers, commanded by de Rullecourt and an Indian, Mir Sayyad, landed at La Rocque, Grouville, overnight on 5–6 January. They occupied St Helier early on the morning of 6 January. They captured the Lieutenant Governor of Jersey Moses Corbet, in bed. Although he surrendered, Peirson, the 24-year-old commander of around 2,000 troops of the British garrison, refused to surrender. As Peirson organised a counter-attack, a French shot killed him. Lieutenant Philippe Dumaresq of the Jersey militia took command of the British forces, which comprised detachments of the 95th Regiment of Foot, 78th Highlanders, and Jersey Militia. The British forces quickly overwhelmed the French, most of whom surrendered. John Boydell, a successful engraver and publisher and Aldermen of the City of London, commissioned Copley to paint a large 251.5 centimetres (99.0 in) by 365.8 centimetres (144.0 in), painting. The scene looks towards the final French resistance in Royal Square, viewed along what is now Peirson Place, with the French soldiers taking their last stand around the statue of George II. Further British reinforcements are visible on the hill at the top left. The statue and some of the buildings depicted still stand (some with bullet holes caused by the battle). Although Peirson was killed in the early stages of the battle, the painting shows Peirson (at the centre of the painting under the large Union Flag, supported by other officers), and being shot down leading the final charge, giving him a more heroic role and fate. To the left, his black servant Pompey avenges his master by shooting the sniper. It is believed that the depictions of the officers supporting the stricken Peirson are true portraits; the black servant of auctioneer James Christie was the model for Pompey, although it is unclear whether a black servant played a role (there is no suggestion in contemporaneous sources). Copley modeled the civilians fleeing to the right on his wife, family nurse and children. Peirson became a national hero, and the painting drew crowds when it was first exhibited at 28 Haymarket in May 1784, with admission charged at 1 shilling. The Tate Gallery purchased the painting in 1864. Today, a copy appears on the 10 Jersey pound note..
The Death of the Earl of Chatham. Author Name: John Singleton Copley. . . The Death of the Earl of Chatham is the title of a 1781 oil-on-canvas painting by Boston-born American artist John Singleton Copley. It depicts the collapse of William Pitt, 1st Earl of Chatham on 7 April 1778, during a debate in the House of Lords on the American War of Independence. Chatham is surrounded by peers of the realm, and the painting contains fifty-five portraits.. The Death of the Earl of Chatham is the title of a 1781 oil-on-canvas painting by Boston-born American artist John Singleton Copley. It depicts the collapse of William Pitt, 1st Earl of Chatham on 7 April 1778, during a debate in the House of Lords on the American War of Independence. Chatham is surrounded by peers of the realm, and the painting contains fifty-five portraits..
The Dessert: Harmony in Red. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . The Dessert: Harmony in Red is a painting by French artist Henri Matisse, from 1908. It is considered by some critics to be Matisse's masterpiece. This Fauvist painting follows the example set by Impressionism with the overall lack of a central focal point.The painting was ordered as "Harmony in Blue," but Matisse was dissatisfied with the result, and so he painted it over with his preferred red.It is in the permanent collection of the Hermitage Museum.. The Dessert: Harmony in Red is a painting by French artist Henri Matisse, from 1908. It is considered by some critics to be Matisse's masterpiece. This Fauvist painting follows the example set by Impressionism with the overall lack of a central focal point. The painting was ordered as "Harmony in Blue," but Matisse was dissatisfied with the result, and so he painted it over with his preferred red. It is in the permanent collection of the Hermitage Museum..
La traversée difficile. Author Name: René Magritte. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Surrealism. . The Difficult Crossing (La traversée difficile) is the name given to two oil-on-canvas paintings by the Belgian surrealist René Magritte. The original version was completed in 1926 during Magritte's early prolific years of surrealism and is currently held in a private collection. A later version was completed in 1963 and is also held in a private collection.. The Difficult Crossing (La traversée difficile) is the name given to two oil-on-canvas paintings by the Belgian surrealist René Magritte. The original version was completed in 1926 during Magritte's early prolific years of surrealism and is currently held in a private collection. A later version was completed in 1963 and is also held in a private collection..
The Double Dream of Spring. Author Name: Giorgio de Chirico. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Metaphysical_art. . The Double Dream of Spring (also known as Doppio Sogno di Primavera, 1915) is a painting by the Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio de Chirico.The painting depicts apparently related but separate scenes. The scene on the left shows a statue of a man in a frock-coat from behind. The statue appears to be staring contemplatively into an open sky. The two scenes are separated in the middle by a wooden beam, perhaps part of an easel. Near the base of the beam is a blueprint drawing of an interior, in which large arches and a window open onto a landscape including the stick-like figures of two men meeting, and distant mountains. The scene on the right appears to be looking down on the same landscape from a slightly different angle. Above the landscape is the shape of the head of a tailor’s dumm. The Double Dream of Spring (also known as Doppio Sogno di Primavera, 1915) is a painting by the Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio de Chirico. The painting depicts apparently related but separate scenes. The scene on the left shows a statue of a man in a frock-coat from behind. The statue appears to be staring contemplatively into an open sky. The two scenes are separated in the middle by a wooden beam, perhaps part of an easel. Near the base of the beam is a blueprint drawing of an interior, in which large arches and a window open onto a landscape including the stick-like figures of two men meeting, and distant mountains. The scene on the right appears to be looking down on the same landscape from a slightly different angle. Above the landscape is the shape of the head of a tailor’s dummy. Similar dummies appear many times in de Chirico’s work (cf. The Seer). This time the dummy’s head looms over the landscape like a hot air balloon. The title was used by John Ashbery for his 1970 book of poems..
The Drop. Author Name: Inges Idee. . . The Drop is a steel sculpture resembling a raindrop by the group of German artists known as Inges Idee, located at Bon Voyage Plaza in the Coal Harbour neighborhood of downtown Vancouver. The 65-foot (20 m) tall piece is covered with Styrofoam and blue polyurethane. According to Inges Idee, the sculpture is "an homage to the power of nature" and represents "the relationship and outlook towards the water that surrounds us." The Drop was commissioned as part of the 2009 Vancouver Convention Centre Art Project and is owned by BC Pavco.. The Drop is a steel sculpture resembling a raindrop by the group of German artists known as Inges Idee, located at Bon Voyage Plaza in the Coal Harbour neighborhood of downtown Vancouver. The 65-foot (20 m) tall piece is covered with Styrofoam and blue polyurethane. According to Inges Idee, the sculpture is "an homage to the power of nature" and represents "the relationship and outlook towards the water that surrounds us." The Drop was commissioned as part of the 2009 Vancouver Convention Centre Art Project and is owned by BC Pavco..
The Drummer. Author Name: Barry Flanagan. . . The Drummer is a bronze sculpture, by Barry Flanagan.It is at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.. The Drummer is a bronze sculpture, by Barry Flanagan. It is at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden..
St. Cecilia Altarpiece. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The St. Cecilia Altarpiece is an oil painting by Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael. Completed in his later years, around 1516-1517, the painting depicts Saint Cecilia, the patron saint of musicians and Church music, listening to a choir of angels in the company of St. Paul, St. John the Evangelist, St. Augustine and Mary Magdalene. Commissioned for a church in Bologna, the painting now hangs there in the Pinacoteca Nazionale, or National Painting Gallery. According to Vasari the musical instruments strewn about Cecilia's feet were not painted by Raphael, but by his student, Giovanni da Udine.. The St. Cecilia Altarpiece is an oil painting by Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael. Completed in his later years, around 1516-1517, the painting depicts Saint Cecilia, the patron saint of musicians and Church music, listening to a choir of angels in the company of St. Paul, St. John the Evangelist, St. Augustine and Mary Magdalene. Commissioned for a church in Bologna, the painting now hangs there in the Pinacoteca Nazionale, or National Painting Gallery. According to Vasari the musical instruments strewn about Cecilia's feet were not painted by Raphael, but by his student, Giovanni da Udine. In 1880, English Romantic poet Percy Shelley described the painting as follows:.
The Elder Sister. Author Name: William-Adolphe Bouguereau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Elder Sister (French: La soeur aînée) is a painting by nineteenth century French artist William-Adolphe Bouguereau in 1869. The painting was acquired by the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston in 1992 as an anonymous gift. According to the museum web site, this was a gift of an anonymous lady in memory of her father. Since then, The Elder Sister has been a part of the permanent collection of the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston (in the "Arts of Europe" section). It has become one of the most notable highlights in museum's collection of paintings.. The Elder Sister (French: La soeur aînée) is a painting by nineteenth century French artist William-Adolphe Bouguereau in 1869. The painting was acquired by the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston in 1992 as an anonymous gift. According to the museum web site, this was a gift of an anonymous lady in memory of her father. Since then, The Elder Sister has been a part of the permanent collection of the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston (in the "Arts of Europe" section). It has become one of the most notable highlights in museum's collection of paintings. The painting shows a girl ("the elder sister") sitting on a rock and holding a sleeping baby ("the younger brother") on her lap, with a quiet rural landscape behind them. For this scene, Bouguereau's daughter Henriette and son Paul served as models. The beauty of the girl and her eyes, which are looking directly at the viewer, as well the balance of the composition, including positioning of the legs and arms of the children, demonstrate Bouguereau's academic painting style. The dimensions of the painting are 51¼ × 38¼ in (130.2 × 97.2 cm) and the frame is 67½ × 55 × 5½ in (171.5 × 139.7 × 14 cm). There is also another painting by Bouguereau called The Elder Sister (completed in 1864), currently belonging to the permanent collection in the Brooklyn Museum..
The Elephant Celebes. Author Name: Max Ernst. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dada. . The Elephant Celebes (or Celebes) is a 1921 painting by the German Dadaist and surrealist Max Ernst. It is among the most famous of Ernst's early surrealist works and "undoubtedly the first masterpiece of Surrealist painting in the De Chirico tradition." It combines the vivid dreamlike atmosphere of Surrealism with the collage aspects of Dada.. The Elephant Celebes (or Celebes) is a 1921 painting by the German Dadaist and surrealist Max Ernst. It is among the most famous of Ernst's early surrealist works and "undoubtedly the first masterpiece of Surrealist painting in the De Chirico tradition." It combines the vivid dreamlike atmosphere of Surrealism with the collage aspects of Dada..
Seaport with the Embarkation of the Queen of Sheba. Author Name: Claude Lorrain. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Seaport with the Embarkation of the Queen of Sheba is an oil painting by Claude Lorrain (also known as Claude Gellée), in the National Gallery, London, signed and dated 1648. The large oil on canvas painting was commissioned by Frédéric Maurice de La Tour d'Auvergne, Duc de Bouillon, general of the Papal army, together with Claude's Landscape with the Marriage of Isaac and Rebecca. It depicts the departure of the Queen of Sheba to visit to King Solomon in Jerusalem, described in the tenth chapter of the First Book of Kings. A more usual subject would be their meeting; this is one of many scenes of journeying painted by Claude. The Queen is departing from a city with classical buildings, with the early morning sun lighting the sea, as vessels are loaded.. Seaport with the Embarkation of the Queen of Sheba is an oil painting by Claude Lorrain (also known as Claude Gellée), in the National Gallery, London, signed and dated 1648. The large oil on canvas painting was commissioned by Frédéric Maurice de La Tour d'Auvergne, Duc de Bouillon, general of the Papal army, together with Claude's Landscape with the Marriage of Isaac and Rebecca. It depicts the departure of the Queen of Sheba to visit to King Solomon in Jerusalem, described in the tenth chapter of the First Book of Kings. A more usual subject would be their meeting; this is one of many scenes of journeying painted by Claude. The Queen is departing from a city with classical buildings, with the early morning sun lighting the sea, as vessels are loaded. The composition draws the eye to a group of people on the steps to the right, at the intersection of a line of perspective (the steps) and a strong vertical (the left column of the building's portico). The Queen wears a pink tunic, royal blue cloak, and golden crown, and is about to board a waiting launch to take her to her ship – perhaps the ship partially concealed by the pillars to the left, or the one further out to sea, over the picture's vanishing point. The painting was one of the first works to be acquired by the National Gallery in 1824, being one of five works by Claude bought from the collection of John Julius Angerstein. It has the catalogue number NG14. This and similar works by Claude work inspired Turner to paint Dido Building Carthage and The Decline of the Carthaginian Empire, which Turner left to the nation as part of the Turner Bequest, on condition that they were hung besides Claude's pair of works..
The Emperor Napoleon in His Study at the Tuileries. Author Name: Jacques-Louis David. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . The Emperor Napoleon in His Study at the Tuileries is an 1812 painting by Jacques-Louis David. It shows French Emperor Napoleon I in uniform in his study at the Tuileries Palace. Despite the detail, it is unlikely that Napoleon posed for the portrait.. The Emperor Napoleon in His Study at the Tuileries is an 1812 painting by Jacques-Louis David. It shows French Emperor Napoleon I in uniform in his study at the Tuileries Palace. Despite the detail, it is unlikely that Napoleon posed for the portrait. It was a private commission from the Scottish nobleman and admirer of Napoleon, Alexander Hamilton, 10th Duke of Hamilton in 1811 and completed in 1812. Originally shown at Hamilton Palace, it was sold to Archibald Primrose, 5th Earl of Rosebery in 1882, from whom it was bought by the Samuel H. Kress Foundation in 1954, which deposited it in Washington D.C.'s National Gallery of Art, where it now hangs..
The Empty Mask. Author Name: René Magritte. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Surrealism. . The Empty Mask (1928) is a painting by Belgian surrealist René Magritte.In his essay Words and Images, published in 1929, Magritte observed that each image "suggests that there are others behind it". Viewed through a freestanding frame of irregular shape, these images are a sky, a lead curtain festooned with sleigh bells, a house façade, a sheet of paper cut-outs, a forest and a fire.. The Empty Mask (1928) is a painting by Belgian surrealist René Magritte. In his essay Words and Images, published in 1929, Magritte observed that each image "suggests that there are others behind it". Viewed through a freestanding frame of irregular shape, these images are a sky, a lead curtain festooned with sleigh bells, a house façade, a sheet of paper cut-outs, a forest and a fire. The title evokes the fear of the invisible which pervades the artist's work and reflects the surrealists' fascination with the subconscious. The painting was purchased in 1973 and is usually on display in the National Museum of Wales..
The Engineer's Lover. Author Name: Carlo Carrà. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Futurism. . The Engineer's Lover (Italian: L'amante dell'ingegnere) is a painting by Italian painter Carlo Carrà. It was finished during the metaphysical phase of the artist (1921).It portrays an enigmatic head of a maiden on a brown table, flanked by a green panel with a triangle and a compasses (symbols of rationalism). The black background contributes to underline the timeless atmosphere of the scene.. The Engineer's Lover (Italian: L'amante dell'ingegnere) is a painting by Italian painter Carlo Carrà. It was finished during the metaphysical phase of the artist (1921). It portrays an enigmatic head of a maiden on a brown table, flanked by a green panel with a triangle and a compasses (symbols of rationalism). The black background contributes to underline the timeless atmosphere of the scene..
The Fall of the Rebel Angels. Author Name: Pieter Bruegel the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_and_Flemish_Renaissance_painting. . The Fall of the Rebel Angels is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in 1562. It is currently held and exhibited at the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium in Brussels.. The Fall of the Rebel Angels is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in 1562. It is currently held and exhibited at the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium in Brussels..
The Fall of the Titans. Author Name: Cornelis van Haarlem. . . The Fall of the Titans is an oil painting of the Titanomachy made by the Dutch painter Cornelis van Haarlem in 1588–1590. The painting's dimensions are 239 × 307 cm (94 × 121 in). The work is in the collection of the Statens Museum for Kunst in Copenhagen, Denmark. It is a claasic example of an ambitious work of the Haarlem Mannerists.. The Fall of the Titans is an oil painting of the Titanomachy made by the Dutch painter Cornelis van Haarlem in 1588–1590. The painting's dimensions are 239 × 307 cm (94 × 121 in). The work is in the collection of the Statens Museum for Kunst in Copenhagen, Denmark. It is a claasic example of an ambitious work of the Haarlem Mannerists..
The Fifer. Author Name: Édouard Manet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Fifer or Young Flautist is a painting by French painter Édouard Manet, made in 1866. It is currently kept in the Musée d'Orsay, Paris.. The Fifer or Young Flautist is a painting by French painter Édouard Manet, made in 1866. It is currently kept in the Musée d'Orsay, Paris..
The Fighting Temeraire tugged to her last Berth to be broken up, 1838. Author Name: J. M. W. Turner. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . The Fighting Temeraire tugged to her last berth to be broken up, 1838 is an oil painting by the English artist J. M. W. Turner. It was painted in 1838 and exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1839. The 98-gun ship HMS Temeraire was one of the last second-rate ships of the line to have played a distinguished role in the Battle of Trafalgar in 1805. The painting depicts HMS Temeraire being towed by a paddle-wheel steam tug towards its final berth in Rotherhithe in south-east London in 1838 to be broken up for scrap. The painting hangs in the National Gallery, London, having been bequeathed to the nation by the artist in 1851. In 2005 it was voted the nation's favourite painting in a poll organised by BBC Radio 4's Today programme.. The Fighting Temeraire tugged to her last berth to be broken up, 1838 is an oil painting by the English artist J. M. W. Turner. It was painted in 1838 and exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1839. The 98-gun ship HMS Temeraire was one of the last second-rate ships of the line to have played a distinguished role in the Battle of Trafalgar in 1805. The painting depicts HMS Temeraire being towed by a paddle-wheel steam tug towards its final berth in Rotherhithe in south-east London in 1838 to be broken up for scrap. The painting hangs in the National Gallery, London, having been bequeathed to the nation by the artist in 1851. In 2005 it was voted the nation's favourite painting in a poll organised by BBC Radio 4's Today programme. Turner displayed the painting in 1839 accompanied by an altered excerpt from Thomas Campbell's poem Ye Mariners of England, reading:.
The First Days of Spring. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The First Days of Spring (1929) is a painting by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dalí. This is probably the most famous example of Dalí's early surrealist work.The setting for this image is an expansive, smooth gray plane. It is elevated on the right and steps down to a lower level at the left. Clustered in the middle of this space is a variety of strange and colorful surrealist images. In the distance is the small shadowy figures of a man holding the hand of a small boy. Toward the left is a figure seated in a chair with his back turned to the entire scene.. The First Days of Spring (1929) is a painting by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dalí. This is probably the most famous example of Dalí's early surrealist work. The setting for this image is an expansive, smooth gray plane. It is elevated on the right and steps down to a lower level at the left. Clustered in the middle of this space is a variety of strange and colorful surrealist images. In the distance is the small shadowy figures of a man holding the hand of a small boy. Toward the left is a figure seated in a chair with his back turned to the entire scene. This work was created during a time of extreme personal stress for Dalí. His father was becoming increasingly disappointed with his son's choice of profession and unorthodox behavior. The figures of the man and boy appear several times in Dalí's future works. They represent Dalí's wish to heal his relationship with his father. The seated figure on the left has also been speculated to represent the artist's father..
The First Mourning. Author Name: William-Adolphe Bouguereau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The First Mourning (in French Premier Deuil) is an oil on canvas painted in 1888 by William-Adolphe Bouguereau. Its dimensions are: 79 7/8 × 99 1/8 inches (203 × 252 cm). This piece of art can be seen at the Museo Nacional de Bellas Artes (Spanish for National Museum of Fine Arts) in Buenos Aires, Argentina.This work depicts the moment after Adam and Eve just found the body of their son Abel, who was murdered by Cain. This is the first human death recorded in the Bible.William-Adolphe Bouguereau had suffered the loss of his second son shortly before painting this work.. The First Mourning (in French Premier Deuil) is an oil on canvas painted in 1888 by William-Adolphe Bouguereau. Its dimensions are: 79 7/8 × 99 1/8 inches (203 × 252 cm). This piece of art can be seen at the Museo Nacional de Bellas Artes (Spanish for National Museum of Fine Arts) in Buenos Aires, Argentina. This work depicts the moment after Adam and Eve just found the body of their son Abel, who was murdered by Cain. This is the first human death recorded in the Bible. William-Adolphe Bouguereau had suffered the loss of his second son shortly before painting this work. Its original name is "Premier Deuil", in French, of which "The First Mourning" is a literal translation..
The Flight of Europa. Author Name: Paul Manship. . . The Flight of Europa is a bronze Art Deco sculpture created by American artist Paul Manship in 1925. Copies are held by the Indianapolis Museum of Art, the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, The Columbus Museum, Columbus, Georgia, and the Smithsonian American Art Museum. It depicts the Greek myth of Europa being abducted by Zeus in the form of a bull.. The Flight of Europa is a bronze Art Deco sculpture created by American artist Paul Manship in 1925. Copies are held by the Indianapolis Museum of Art, the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, The Columbus Museum, Columbus, Georgia, and the Smithsonian American Art Museum. It depicts the Greek myth of Europa being abducted by Zeus in the form of a bull..
The Fog Warning. Author Name: Winslow Homer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Fog Warning is one of several paintings by the late-19th-century American painter Winslow Homer (1836-1910) on marine subjects. Together with The Herring Net and Breezing Up, painted the same year and also depicting the hard lives of fishermen in Maine, it is considered among his best works on such topics.. The Fog Warning is one of several paintings by the late-19th-century American painter Winslow Homer (1836-1910) on marine subjects. Together with The Herring Net and Breezing Up, painted the same year and also depicting the hard lives of fishermen in Maine, it is considered among his best works on such topics..
The Funeral. Author Name: George Grosz. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dada. . The Funeral (often The Funeral (Dedicated to Oskar Panizza)) is a painting by the German Expressionist artist George Grosz, completed between 1917 and 1918. The work combines elements of Futurism and Cubism to show a funeral procession in a modern urban city, as an infernal abyss populated by twisted and grotesque attendants. The painting is dedicated to the German psychiatrist and avant-garde writer Oskar Panizza, noted for his play Liebeskonzil, which draws on the first historically documented outbreak of syphilis and depicts God the Father as a senile old man. Although Panizza's works, in which he rejected all militarism and religious authority, were deemed blasphemous by both the Church and government of Emperor Wilhelm II, they were later admired by Grosz and other idealists of his ge. The Funeral (often The Funeral (Dedicated to Oskar Panizza)) is a painting by the German Expressionist artist George Grosz, completed between 1917 and 1918. The work combines elements of Futurism and Cubism to show a funeral procession in a modern urban city, as an infernal abyss populated by twisted and grotesque attendants. The painting is dedicated to the German psychiatrist and avant-garde writer Oskar Panizza, noted for his play Liebeskonzil, which draws on the first historically documented outbreak of syphilis and depicts God the Father as a senile old man. Although Panizza's works, in which he rejected all militarism and religious authority, were deemed blasphemous by both the Church and government of Emperor Wilhelm II, they were later admired by Grosz and other idealists of his generation. The painting seeks to emulate medieval depictions of hellscapes, mainly through dramatic colourisation—in particular through its use of red light—as well as through the depiction of multitudes of layered distorted bodies and limbs, echoing the work of Bruegel in the 16th century. A skeleton representing the Grim Reaper sits on the coffin, drinking from a bottle. A mob of mourners gathered around him are presented as ugly, frenzied and as if ridden with alcoholism and late-stage syphilis. Tall claustrophobic buildings are lined above the procession. They seem to heave and bend backwards and forwards, as if about to topple over and collapse onto those cluddered below. Among these buildings is a lone small church, surrounded by bars, nightclubs and offices. Giving a literal voice to the "Dance of Death" depicted by the artist, a sign over one club reads "DANCE TONIGHT". Explaining his intention when creating the work, Grosz said, The painting served as the cover artwork for the 1987 album I Am a Wallet by the British rock band Mccarthy..
The Funeral of the Anarchist Galli. Author Name: Carlo Carrà. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Futurism. . The Funeral of the Anarchist Galli (Il Funerale dell’anarchico Galli) is a painting by Italian painter Carlo Carrà. It was finished in 1911, during the artist's futurist phase. It currently resides in New York City's Museum of Modern Art.Carlo Carrà was present. His work embodies the tension and chaos of the scene: the movement of the bodies, the clashing of anarchists and police, the black flags flying in the air. He reflects in a later memoir:. The Funeral of the Anarchist Galli (Il Funerale dell’anarchico Galli) is a painting by Italian painter Carlo Carrà. It was finished in 1911, during the artist's futurist phase. It currently resides in New York City's Museum of Modern Art. The subject of the work is the funeral of Italian anarchist Angelo Galli, killed by police during a general strike in 1904. The Italian State feared that the funeral would become a de facto political demonstration and refused the mourning anarchists entrance into the cemetery itself. When anarchists resisted, the police responded with force and a violent scuffle ensued. Carlo Carrà was present. His work embodies the tension and chaos of the scene: the movement of the bodies, the clashing of anarchists and police, the black flags flying in the air. He reflects in a later memoir:.
The Gallant Conversation. Author Name: Gerard ter Borch. . . The Gallant Conversation is an oil-on-canvas painting from circa 1654 by Gerard ter Borch (the Younger). A late 18th century French print of the work is titled The Paternal Admonition, apparently believing it showed a father reprimanding his daughter, but modern art historians see it as a conversation between two prospective lovers, either a discussion of a betrothal or, more likely, a customer propositioning a prostitute in a brothel.. The Gallant Conversation is an oil-on-canvas painting from circa 1654 by Gerard ter Borch (the Younger). A late 18th century French print of the work is titled The Paternal Admonition, apparently believing it showed a father reprimanding his daughter, but modern art historians see it as a conversation between two prospective lovers, either a discussion of a betrothal or, more likely, a customer propositioning a prostitute in a brothel..
The Glorification of the Virgin. Author Name: Geertgen tot Sint Jans. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . The Glorification of the Virgin (Dutch: De verheerlijking van Maria) is a 15th-century painting attributed to Geertgen tot Sint Jans. The painting was made in circa 1490–1495 and was originally part of a diptych. It shows the Virgin Mary who is holding Jesus and who is surrounded by three rings of angels. The work is in the collection of Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen in Rotterdam, Netherlands.. The Glorification of the Virgin (Dutch: De verheerlijking van Maria) is a 15th-century painting attributed to Geertgen tot Sint Jans. The painting was made in circa 1490–1495 and was originally part of a diptych. It shows the Virgin Mary who is holding Jesus and who is surrounded by three rings of angels. The work is in the collection of Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen in Rotterdam, Netherlands..
The Goat Amalthea with the Infant Jupiter and a Faun. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Goat Amalthea with the Infant Jupiter and a Faun is the earliest known work by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Produced sometime between 1609 and 1615, the sculpture is now in the Borghese Collection at the Galleria Borghese in Rome.. The Goat Amalthea with the Infant Jupiter and a Faun is the earliest known work by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Produced sometime between 1609 and 1615, the sculpture is now in the Borghese Collection at the Galleria Borghese in Rome..
The Great Masturbator. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The Great Masturbator (1929) is a painting by Salvador Dalí executed during the surrealist epoch, and is currently displayed at Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofía, Madrid.. The Great Masturbator (1929) is a painting by Salvador Dalí executed during the surrealist epoch, and is currently displayed at Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofía, Madrid..
The Hireling Shepherd. Author Name: William Holman Hunt. . . The Hireling Shepherd (1851) is a painting by the Pre-Raphaelite artist William Holman Hunt. It represents a shepherd neglecting his flock in favour of an attractive country girl to whom he shows a death's-head hawkmoth. The meaning of the image has been much debated.. The Hireling Shepherd (1851) is a painting by the Pre-Raphaelite artist William Holman Hunt. It represents a shepherd neglecting his flock in favour of an attractive country girl to whom he shows a death's-head hawkmoth. The meaning of the image has been much debated. Hunt painted the picture when he was working in close collaboration with John Everett Millais, who was painting Ophelia at the same time in the same region of Surrey. Both paintings depict English rural scenes, the innocence of which is disturbed by subtle but profoundly threatening violations of natural harmony. In Hunt's painting, the shepherd ignores his flock of sheep, who wander over a ditch into a wheat field. This violation of boundaries is paralleled by the shepherd's physical intrusions into the personal space of the young woman, who responds in an ambiguous way that might be interpreted as complicity or as a knowing scepticism. As he shows her the moth, he places his arm round her shoulder..
The Hungry Lion Throws Itself on the Antelope. Author Name: Henri Rousseau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Naïve_art. . The Hungry Lion Throws Itself on the Antelope (Le lion ayant faim se jette sur l'antilope) is a large oil-on-canvas painting created by Henri Rousseau in 1905. Following Scouts Attacked by a Tiger the previous year, The Hungry Lion was the second jungle painting to mark Rousseau's return to this genre after a 10-year hiatus caused by the generally negative reception to his 1891 painting, Tiger in a Tropical Storm.The magazine L'Illustration printed a copy of the work in its edition of 4 November 1905, with works by Matisse, Derain, Cézanne and Vuillard.. The Hungry Lion Throws Itself on the Antelope (Le lion ayant faim se jette sur l'antilope) is a large oil-on-canvas painting created by Henri Rousseau in 1905. Following Scouts Attacked by a Tiger the previous year, The Hungry Lion was the second jungle painting to mark Rousseau's return to this genre after a 10-year hiatus caused by the generally negative reception to his 1891 painting, Tiger in a Tropical Storm. The Hungry Lion features a jungle scene of thick green foliage lit by a deep red setting sun. In the foreground, a lion bites deeply into the neck of an antelope. Other animals are visible in the dense undergrowth: a panther watches from the right, an owl stares out of the background holding a bloody strand of meat in its beak in the centre, with a second bird to its left, and dark ape-like shape with gimlet eye lurks to the left. Rousseau based the central pair of animals on a diorama of stuffed animals at the Paris Muséum national d'histoire naturelle, entitled Senegal Lion Devouring an Antelope. Rousseau's first jungle painting, Tiger in a Tropical Storm, was rejected by the Académie de peinture et de sculpture for their official Paris Salon, but he was able to show it at the 1891 Salon des Indépendants. Despite his increasing reputation, Rousseau continued to exhibit his works at the annual Salon des Indépendants, but The Hungry Lion was first shown at a third show, the Salon d'Automne, in 1905, alongside works by Matisse and Derain. Rousseau wrote a longer subtitle or caption to accompany his painting: The magazine L'Illustration printed a copy of the work in its edition of 4 November 1905, with works by Matisse, Derain, Cézanne and Vuillard. The avante garde works on display at the 1905 Salon d'Automne were decried by art critic Louis Vauxcelles as, "Donatello chez les fauves" (Donatello among the wild beasts), contrasting the paintings with a Renaissance-style sculpture displayed in the same room at the Grand Palais. Vauxcelles’ comment was printed on 17 October 1905 in Gil Blas, a daily newspaper, and the term Fauvism passed into popular usage for the type of work exhibited, of seeming simplicity in vibrant colours. The very term Fauvism may have been influenced directly by Rousseau's The Hungry Lion, although Rousseau was not himself counted as a Fauve. Despite their apparent simplicity, Rousseau's jungle paintings were built up meticulously in layers, using a large number of green shades to capture the lush exuberance of the jungle. Rousseau's work continued to be derided by the critics up to and after his death in 1910, but he won a following among his contemporaries: Picasso, Matisse, and Toulouse-Lautrec were all admirers of his work. The Hungry Lion is now held by the Fondation Beyeler and is exhibited at their gallery at Riehen, near Basel, in Switzerland. Previously. in 1905, it had been exhibited in the Salon des Independants, in Paris..
The Ideal City. Author Name: Carnevale, Fra. . . The Ideal City is a 15th-century painting usually attributed to the architect and artist Fra Carnavale. The Ideal City is one of three related paintings, the others are in Urbino (Ideal City) and Germany (Urban Perspective). The painting was most likely executed for the Ducal Palace, Urbino of Federico da Montefeltro, duke of Urbino. There is no indisputable evidence for this, but Carnevale was one of three architects used for renovations to the palace. Furthermore, in an inventory of the palace completed in 1599 there is mention of a "long rectangular painting depicting an antique but beautiful perspective from the hand of Carnavale". The panels might have been spalliere, forming part of a decorative scheme set into the wainscoting or furnishings, a style common in Italy in the late 15th . The Ideal City is a 15th-century painting usually attributed to the architect and artist Fra Carnavale. The Ideal City is one of three related paintings, the others are in Urbino (Ideal City) and Germany (Urban Perspective). The painting was most likely executed for the Ducal Palace, Urbino of Federico da Montefeltro, duke of Urbino. There is no indisputable evidence for this, but Carnevale was one of three architects used for renovations to the palace. Furthermore, in an inventory of the palace completed in 1599 there is mention of a "long rectangular painting depicting an antique but beautiful perspective from the hand of Carnavale". The panels might have been spalliere, forming part of a decorative scheme set into the wainscoting or furnishings, a style common in Italy in the late 15th century. However, the painting is attributed by others to Francesco di Giorgio Martini, partly due to the latter's greater significance at the Urbino court and because the painting refers to architectural themes he refers to, derived from Leon Battista Alberti's slightly earlier published treatise, in his own architectural treatise..
The Ironworkers' Noontime. Author Name: Thomas Anshutz. . . Ironworker's Noontime is an 1880 painting by the American painter Thomas Anshutz.The painting depicts several workers on their break in the yard of a foundry and is one of the most popular of Anshutz' paintings. Painted near Wheeling, West Virginia, it is conceived in a naturalistic style similar to that of Thomas Eakins, although Eakins never painted industrial subjects. The piece was exhibited at the Philadelphia Sketch Club in 1881 and compared to Eakin's work by art critics. Art historian Randall C. Griffin has written of it: "One of the first American paintings to depict the bleakness of factory life, The Ironworkers' Noontime appears to be a clear indictment of industrialization. Its brutal candor startled critics, who saw it as unexpectedly confrontational—a chilling industrial snap. Ironworker's Noontime is an 1880 painting by the American painter Thomas Anshutz. The painting depicts several workers on their break in the yard of a foundry and is one of the most popular of Anshutz' paintings. Painted near Wheeling, West Virginia, it is conceived in a naturalistic style similar to that of Thomas Eakins, although Eakins never painted industrial subjects. The piece was exhibited at the Philadelphia Sketch Club in 1881 and compared to Eakin's work by art critics. Art historian Randall C. Griffin has written of it: "One of the first American paintings to depict the bleakness of factory life, The Ironworkers' Noontime appears to be a clear indictment of industrialization. Its brutal candor startled critics, who saw it as unexpectedly confrontational—a chilling industrial snapshot not the least picturesque or sublime." It is now in the collection of the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco..
The Jewish Bride. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Jewish Bride (Dutch: Het Joodse bruidje) is a painting by Rembrandt, painted around 1667.The painting gained its current name in the early 19th century, when an Amsterdam art collector identified the subject as that of a Jewish father bestowing a necklace upon his daughter on her wedding day. This interpretation is no longer accepted, and the identity of the couple is uncertain. The ambiguity is heightened by the lack of anecdotal context, leaving only the central universal theme, that of a couple joined in love. Speculative suggestions as to the couple's identity have ranged from Rembrandt's son Titus and his bride, or Amsterdam poet Miguel de Barrios and his wife. Also considered are several couples from the Old Testament, including Abraham and Sarah, or Boaz and Ruth. The likeliest . The Jewish Bride (Dutch: Het Joodse bruidje) is a painting by Rembrandt, painted around 1667. The painting gained its current name in the early 19th century, when an Amsterdam art collector identified the subject as that of a Jewish father bestowing a necklace upon his daughter on her wedding day. This interpretation is no longer accepted, and the identity of the couple is uncertain. The ambiguity is heightened by the lack of anecdotal context, leaving only the central universal theme, that of a couple joined in love. Speculative suggestions as to the couple's identity have ranged from Rembrandt's son Titus and his bride, or Amsterdam poet Miguel de Barrios and his wife. Also considered are several couples from the Old Testament, including Abraham and Sarah, or Boaz and Ruth. The likeliest identification, however, is that of Isaac and Rebekah, as described in Genesis 26:8, and is supported by a drawing by the artist of the same theme. While technical evidence suggests that Rembrandt initially envisioned a larger and more elaborate composition, the placement of his signature at lower left indicates that its current dimensions are not significantly different from those at the time of its completion. According to Rembrandt biographer Christopher White, the completed composition is "one of the greatest expressions of the tender fusion of spiritual and physical love in the history of painting." The painting is in the permanent collection of the Rijksmuseum Amsterdam..
The Kensingtons at Laventie. Author Name: Eric Kennington. . . The Kensingtons at Laventie is a large oil painting on glass by Eric Kennington completed in 1915 that depicts a First World War platoon of British troops. The group depicted was Kennington's own infantry platoon, Platoon No 7, C Company, the 1/13th (County of London) Battalion, London Regiment (Kensington), who were commonly known as the Kensingtons. Kennington completed the painting having been invalided out of the British Army due to wounds suffered on the Western Front in early 1915.. The Kensingtons at Laventie is a large oil painting on glass by Eric Kennington completed in 1915 that depicts a First World War platoon of British troops. The group depicted was Kennington's own infantry platoon, Platoon No 7, C Company, the 1/13th (County of London) Battalion, London Regiment (Kensington), who were commonly known as the Kensingtons. Kennington completed the painting having been invalided out of the British Army due to wounds suffered on the Western Front in early 1915. The painting is Kennington's most famous work. It has been described as "one of the iconic images of the First World War", and is held by the Imperial War Museum. When it was first exhibited in 1916, the painting had a large impact and hastened the establishment of an official British scheme for war artists..
The Lackawanna Valley. Author Name: George Inness. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Hudson_River_School. . The Lackawanna Valley is a c. 1855 painting by the American artist George Inness. Painted in oil on canvas, it is one of Inness's best and most well-known works. It is in the collection of the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C.The painting was commissioned from Inness by John Jay Phelps the first president of the Delaware, Lackawanna and Western Railroad, and depicts the Lackawanna Valley in Pennsylvania at the site of the railroad's first roundhouse in Scranton.. The Lackawanna Valley is a c. 1855 painting by the American artist George Inness. Painted in oil on canvas, it is one of Inness's best and most well-known works. It is in the collection of the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. The painting was commissioned from Inness by John Jay Phelps the first president of the Delaware, Lackawanna and Western Railroad, and depicts the Lackawanna Valley in Pennsylvania at the site of the railroad's first roundhouse in Scranton..
The Lady with a Fan. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Lady with a Fan is an oil painting by the Spanish court painter Diego Velázquez. It depicts a woman wearing a black lace veil on her head and a dark dress with a low-cut bodice. On the basis of its place in Velázquez's stylistic development, the portrait is thought to have been painted between 1638 and 1639. It is now in the Wallace Collection in London.. The Lady with a Fan is an oil painting by the Spanish court painter Diego Velázquez. It depicts a woman wearing a black lace veil on her head and a dark dress with a low-cut bodice. On the basis of its place in Velázquez's stylistic development, the portrait is thought to have been painted between 1638 and 1639. It is now in the Wallace Collection in London..
The Lament for Icarus. Author Name: Herbert James Draper. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Classicism. . The Lament for Icarus is a painting by Herbert James Draper, showing dead Icarus, surrounded by lamenting nymphs. The wings of Icarus are based on the bird-of-paradise pattern. In 1898 the painting was bought from the Royal Academy exhibition through The Chantrey Bequest, a public fund for purchasing modern art bequeathed by Sir Francis Leggatt Chantrey, R.A.. The Lament for Icarus was subsequently awarded the gold medal at the Exposition Universelle of 1900 in Paris.. The Lament for Icarus is a painting by Herbert James Draper, showing dead Icarus, surrounded by lamenting nymphs. The wings of Icarus are based on the bird-of-paradise pattern. In 1898 the painting was bought from the Royal Academy exhibition through The Chantrey Bequest, a public fund for purchasing modern art bequeathed by Sir Francis Leggatt Chantrey, R.A.. The Lament for Icarus was subsequently awarded the gold medal at the Exposition Universelle of 1900 in Paris. According to Dr. Justine Hopkins, Draper identifies Icarus "with the other heroes of the Pre-Raphaelites and symbolists, who, like James Dean half a century later, manage to live fast, die young and leave a beautiful corpse"..
The Land of Cockaigne. Author Name: Pieter Bruegel the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_and_Flemish_Renaissance_painting. . Het Luilekkerland (Dutch, "the lazy-luscious-land") — known in English as The Land of Cockaigne — is a 1567 oil painting by Flemish artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder (c. 1525–1569). In medieval times, Cockaigne was a mythical land of plenty, but Bruegel's depiction of Cockaigne and its residents is not meant to be a flattering one. He chooses rather a comic illustration of the spiritual emptiness believed to derive from gluttony and sloth, two of the seven deadly sins.. Het Luilekkerland (Dutch, "the lazy-luscious-land") — known in English as The Land of Cockaigne — is a 1567 oil painting by Flemish artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder (c. 1525–1569). In medieval times, Cockaigne was a mythical land of plenty, but Bruegel's depiction of Cockaigne and its residents is not meant to be a flattering one. He chooses rather a comic illustration of the spiritual emptiness believed to derive from gluttony and sloth, two of the seven deadly sins..
The Large Horse. Author Name: Raymond Duchamp-Villon. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The Large Horse (French: Le Grand cheval) is a 1914-31 bronze sculpture by French artist Raymond Duchamp-Villon, installed at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston's (MFAH) Lillie and Hugh Roy Cullen Sculpture Garden in Houston, Texas, in the United States.. The Large Horse (French: Le Grand cheval) is a 1914-31 bronze sculpture by French artist Raymond Duchamp-Villon, installed at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston's (MFAH) Lillie and Hugh Roy Cullen Sculpture Garden in Houston, Texas, in the United States..
The Last Drop. Author Name: Judith Leyster. . . The Last Drop is an oil painting by Judith Leyster in the John G. Johnson collection of the Philadelphia Museum of Art. It was considered a work by Frans Hals until 1903, when it was noticed that it is signed 'JL*' on the tankard.. The Last Drop is an oil painting by Judith Leyster in the John G. Johnson collection of the Philadelphia Museum of Art. It was considered a work by Frans Hals until 1903, when it was noticed that it is signed 'JL*' on the tankard..
The Laundress. Author Name: Honoré Daumier. . . The Laundress (La Blanchisseuse) (also known in English as The Washerwoman) is an oil-on-panel painted by French artist Honoré Daumier in 1863. It is currently held and exhibited at the Musée d'Orsay in Paris.. The Laundress (La Blanchisseuse) (also known in English as The Washerwoman) is an oil-on-panel painted by French artist Honoré Daumier in 1863. It is currently held and exhibited at the Musée d'Orsay in Paris..
The Laundress. Author Name: Jean-Baptiste Greuze. . . The Laundress (French: La Blanchisseuse) is a 1761 genre painting by French artist Jean-Baptiste Greuze (1725-1805). Its development was influenced by Dutch cabinet painting and the imagery of the laundress made popular through a literary style known as genre poissard. The Laundress was one of fourteen works exhibited by Greuze at the Salon of 1761 and was part of the collection of Greuze's patron, Ange Laurent Lalive de Jully. The painting was mostly unknown for more than two centuries as it was privately held by various Swedish art collectors and rarely seen until it was acquired by the Getty Museum in 1983.. The Laundress (French: La Blanchisseuse) is a 1761 genre painting by French artist Jean-Baptiste Greuze (1725-1805). Its development was influenced by Dutch cabinet painting and the imagery of the laundress made popular through a literary style known as genre poissard. The Laundress was one of fourteen works exhibited by Greuze at the Salon of 1761 and was part of the collection of Greuze's patron, Ange Laurent Lalive de Jully. The painting was mostly unknown for more than two centuries as it was privately held by various Swedish art collectors and rarely seen until it was acquired by the Getty Museum in 1983..
The Librarian. Author Name: Arcimboldo, Giuseppe. . . The Librarian is an oil on canvas painting by Giuseppe Arcimboldo in the collection of Skokloster Castle in Sweden. It is thought to be a portrait of Wolfgang Lazius, a humanist and historian who served Holy Roman Emperors of the House of Habsburg.Arcimboldo became official portraitist to Emperor Maximilian II in 1562. The Librarian is one of a series of paintings by Arcimboldo of members of Maximilian's entourage. Skokloster Castle dates the painting to 1562, though the painting is more often dated circa 1566.. The Librarian is an oil on canvas painting by Giuseppe Arcimboldo in the collection of Skokloster Castle in Sweden. It is thought to be a portrait of Wolfgang Lazius, a humanist and historian who served Holy Roman Emperors of the House of Habsburg. Arcimboldo became official portraitist to Emperor Maximilian II in 1562. The Librarian is one of a series of paintings by Arcimboldo of members of Maximilian's entourage. Skokloster Castle dates the painting to 1562, though the painting is more often dated circa 1566. Arcimboldo created a number of portraits of people by painting an assemblage of objects such as fruits and vegetables, flowers, or in this case, books; the objects typically had some connection to the person's life or depiction. Benno Geiger called it a "triumph of abstract art in the 16th century". In 1957, art historian Sven Alfons was the first to conclude that this was specifically a portrait of Lazius. The work has been interpreted as both a celebration and a satirical mocking of librarians and scholarship. K. C. Elhard suggests that it may be specifically a parody of "materialistic book collectors more interested in acquiring books than in reading them." Elhard notes that The Librarian has become "a fixture in the visual history of the library profession". However, the original title, if any, is unknown, and its current title first appears (in Swedish as "Bibliotekarien") in an early 20th-century inventory. The Librarian is one of two works by Arcimbolodo in the collection of Skokloster Castle. The painting was brought to Sweden following the looting of Prague Castle by the Swedish army during the 1648 Battle of Prague and was owned by General Hans Christoff von Königsmarck. There are three other extant versions of the painting whose attributions are uncertain. A scientific study published in 2011 concluded that The Librarian was a later copy of Arcimbolodo's original painting, whose whereabouts are unknown..
The Lugubrious Game. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The Lugubrious Game (or The Mournful Game) is a part oil painting and part collage on cardboard artwork created by Salvador Dalí in 1929. It displays references to feces (in the form of a man wearing soiled underpants), sexual desire, castration and alludes to the "safety" of masturbation[citation needed]. The name of the painting was given by poet, Paul Éluard.. The Lugubrious Game (or The Mournful Game) is a part oil painting and part collage on cardboard artwork created by Salvador Dalí in 1929. It displays references to feces (in the form of a man wearing soiled underpants), sexual desire, castration and alludes to the "safety" of masturbation[citation needed]. The name of the painting was given by poet, Paul Éluard..
The Magpie. Author Name: Claude Monet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Magpie (French: La Pie) is an oil-on-canvas landscape painting by the French Impressionist Claude Monet, created during the winter of 1868–1869 near the commune of Étretat in Normandy. Monet's patron, Louis Joachim Gaudibert, helped arrange a house in Étretat for Monet's girlfriend Camille Doncieux and their newborn son, allowing Monet to paint in relative comfort, surrounded by his family.. The Magpie (French: La Pie) is an oil-on-canvas landscape painting by the French Impressionist Claude Monet, created during the winter of 1868–1869 near the commune of Étretat in Normandy. Monet's patron, Louis Joachim Gaudibert, helped arrange a house in Étretat for Monet's girlfriend Camille Doncieux and their newborn son, allowing Monet to paint in relative comfort, surrounded by his family. Between 1867 and 1893, Monet and fellow Impressionists Alfred Sisley and Camille Pissarro painted hundreds of landscapes illustrating the natural effect of snow (effet de neige). Similar winter paintings of lesser quantity were produced by Pierre-Auguste Renoir, Gustave Caillebotte, and Paul Gauguin. Art historians believe that a series of severe winters in France contributed to an increase in the number of winter landscapes produced by Impressionists. The Magpie is one of approximately 140 snowscapes produced by Monet. His first snowscape, A Cart on the Snowy Road at Honfleur, was painted sometime in either 1865 or 1867, followed by a notable series of snowscapes in the same year, beginning with the Road by Saint-Simeon Farm in Winter. The Magpie was completed in 1869 and is Monet's largest winter painting. It was followed by The Red Cape (1869–1871), the only known winter painting featuring Camille Doncieux. The canvas of The Magpie depicts a solitary black magpie perched on a gate formed in a wattle fence, as the light of the sun shines upon freshly fallen snow creating blue shadows. The painting features one of the first examples of Monet's use of colored shadows, which would later become associated with the Impressionist movement. Monet and the Impressionists used colored shadows to represent the actual, changing conditions of light and shadow as seen in nature, challenging the academic convention of painting shadows black. This subjective theory of color perception was introduced to the art world through the works of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe and Michel Eugène Chevreul earlier in the century. At the time, Monet's innovative use of light and color led to its rejection by the Paris Salon of 1869. Today, art historians classify The Magpie as one of Monet's best snowscape paintings. The painting was privately held until the Musée d'Orsay acquired it in 1984; it is considered one of the most popular paintings in their permanent collection..
The Melody Haunts My Reverie. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . The Melody Haunts My Reverie is a 1965 screen printing by Roy Lichtenstein, referring to the 1927 song "Stardust" by Hoagy Carmichael (Lichtenstein loved jazz). The painting is housed in Housatonic Museum of Art and another copy signed by Lichtenstein is kept in Neuberger Museum of Art.. The Melody Haunts My Reverie is a 1965 screen printing by Roy Lichtenstein, referring to the 1927 song "Stardust" by Hoagy Carmichael (Lichtenstein loved jazz). The painting is housed in Housatonic Museum of Art and another copy signed by Lichtenstein is kept in Neuberger Museum of Art. The woman on the image, holding a microphone, was likened to modern character of Betty Draper from Mad Men. The painting was described as being among those that "don't lower art to the level of the comic strip but raise the comic strip to the level of high art". A version of The Melody Haunts My Reverie from 11 Pop Artists, Volume II was sold at Christie's for $17,250..
The Menin Road. Author Name: Paul Nash. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Surrealism. . The Menin Road is a large oil painting by Paul Nash completed in 1919 that depicts a First World War battlefield. Nash was commissioned by the British War Memorials Committee to paint a battlefield scene for the proposed national Hall of Remembrance. The painting is considered one of the most iconic images of the First World War and is held by the Imperial War Museum.. The Menin Road is a large oil painting by Paul Nash completed in 1919 that depicts a First World War battlefield. Nash was commissioned by the British War Memorials Committee to paint a battlefield scene for the proposed national Hall of Remembrance. The painting is considered one of the most iconic images of the First World War and is held by the Imperial War Museum..
The Milkmaid. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . The Milkmaid (Dutch: De Melkmeid or Het Melkmeisje), sometimes called The Kitchen Maid, is an oil-on-canvas painting of a "milkmaid", in fact a domestic kitchen maid, by the Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer. It is now in the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, which regards it as "unquestionably one of the museum's finest attractions".. The Milkmaid (Dutch: De Melkmeid or Het Melkmeisje), sometimes called The Kitchen Maid, is an oil-on-canvas painting of a "milkmaid", in fact a domestic kitchen maid, by the Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer. It is now in the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, which regards it as "unquestionably one of the museum's finest attractions". The exact year of the painting's completion is unknown, with estimates varying by source. The Rijksmuseum estimates it as circa 1658. According to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City, it was painted in about 1657 or 1658. The "Essential Vermeer" website gives a broader range of 1658–1661..
The Millinery Shop. Author Name: Edgar Degas. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Millinery Shop (1879/86) is a painting by French artist Edgar Degas. It depicts a woman siting at a display table in a millinery shop, appearing to closely examine or work on a lady's hat, which she holds in her hands. The view of the scene is at an angle from above. Although Degas created several paintings concerning milliners, this painting is his "largest and only 'museum scale work' on this subject".. The Millinery Shop (1879/86) is a painting by French artist Edgar Degas. It depicts a woman siting at a display table in a millinery shop, appearing to closely examine or work on a lady's hat, which she holds in her hands. The view of the scene is at an angle from above. Although Degas created several paintings concerning milliners, this painting is his "largest and only 'museum scale work' on this subject"..
The Needlewoman. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Needlewoman (Spanish: La costurera) is an oil-on-canvas painting by Diego Velázquez, painted between 1635 and 1643. It is housed in the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C.. The Needlewoman (Spanish: La costurera) is an oil-on-canvas painting by Diego Velázquez, painted between 1635 and 1643. It is housed in the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C..
The Nut Gatherers. Author Name: William-Adolphe Bouguereau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Nut Gatherers (Les Noisettes) is an 1882 oil painting by the French artist William-Adolphe Bouguereau. It is one of the most popular pieces at the Detroit Institute of Arts. The painting was donated to the museum by William E. Scripps in 1954.. The Nut Gatherers (Les Noisettes) is an 1882 oil painting by the French artist William-Adolphe Bouguereau. It is one of the most popular pieces at the Detroit Institute of Arts. The painting was donated to the museum by William E. Scripps in 1954..
Origin of the Milky Way. Author Name: Tintoretto. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Origin of the Milky Way is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance master Jacopo Tintoretto, in the National Gallery, London, formerly in the Orleans Collection. It is an oil painting on canvas, and dates from ca.1575–1580.. The Origin of the Milky Way is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance master Jacopo Tintoretto, in the National Gallery, London, formerly in the Orleans Collection. It is an oil painting on canvas, and dates from ca.1575–1580. According to myth, the infant Heracles was brought to Hera by his half-sister Athena, who later played an important role as a goddess of protection. Hera nursed Heracles out of pity, but he suckled so strongly that he caused Hera pain, and she pushed him away. Her milk sprayed across the heavens and there formed the Milky Way. With divine milk, Heracles acquired supernatural powers..
The Painter's Studio: A real allegory summing up seven years of my artistic and moral life. Author Name: Gustave Courbet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Painter's Studio (L'Atelier du peintre): A real allegory summing up seven years of my artistic and moral life is an 1855 oil on canvas painting by Gustave Courbet. It is located in the Musée d'Orsay in Paris, France.. The Painter's Studio (L'Atelier du peintre): A real allegory summing up seven years of my artistic and moral life is an 1855 oil on canvas painting by Gustave Courbet. It is located in the Musée d'Orsay in Paris, France. Courbet painted The Painter's Studio in Ornans, France in 1855. "The world comes to be painted at my studio," said Courbet of the Realist work. The figures in the painting are allegorical representations of various influences on Courbet's artistic life. On the left are human figures from all levels of society. In the center, Courbet works on a landscape, while turned away from a nude model who is a symbol of Academic art. On the right are friends and associates of Courbet, mainly elite Parisian society figures, including Charles Baudelaire, Champfleury, Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, and Courbet's most prominent patron, Alfred Bruyas. The 1855 Paris World Fair's jury accepted eleven of Courbet's works for the Exposition Universelle, but The Painter's Studio was not among them. In an act of self promotion and defiance, Courbet, with the help of Alfred Bruyas, opened his own exhibition (The Pavilion of Realism) close to the official exposition; this was a forerunner of the various Salon des Refusés. Very little praise was forthcoming, and Eugène Delacroix was one of the few painters who supported the work. Of the painting, Courbet stated that The Painter's Studio "represents society at its best, its worst, and its average.".
Harmony in Blue and Gold: The Peacock Room. Author Name: James Abbott McNeill Whistler. . Author Movement: Founder of Tonalism. . Harmony in Blue and Gold: The Peacock Room (better known as The Peacock Room) is James McNeill Whistler's masterpiece of interior decorative mural art. He painted the panelled room in a rich and unified palette of brilliant blue-greens with over-glazing and metallic gold leaf. Painted between 1876–77, it now is considered one of the greatest surviving aesthetic interiors, and best examples of the Anglo-Japanese style.. Harmony in Blue and Gold: The Peacock Room (better known as The Peacock Room) is James McNeill Whistler's masterpiece of interior decorative mural art. He painted the panelled room in a rich and unified palette of brilliant blue-greens with over-glazing and metallic gold leaf. Painted between 1876–77, it now is considered one of the greatest surviving aesthetic interiors, and best examples of the Anglo-Japanese style..
The Polish Rider. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Polish Rider is a seventeenth-century painting, usually dated to the 1650s, of a young man traveling on horseback through a murky landscape, now in The Frick Collection in New York. When the painting was sold by Zdzisław Tarnowski to Henry Frick in 1910, there was consensus that the work was by the Dutch painter Rembrandt. This attribution has since been contested, though this remains a minority view.. The Polish Rider is a seventeenth-century painting, usually dated to the 1650s, of a young man traveling on horseback through a murky landscape, now in The Frick Collection in New York. When the painting was sold by Zdzisław Tarnowski to Henry Frick in 1910, there was consensus that the work was by the Dutch painter Rembrandt. This attribution has since been contested, though this remains a minority view. There has also been debate over whether the painting was intended as a portrait of a particular person, living or historical, and if so of whom, or if not, what it was intended to represent. The quality of the painting is generally admitted as is its slight air of mystery, though parts of the background are very sketchily painted or unfinished..
The Railway. Author Name: Édouard Manet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Railway, widely known as Gare Saint-Lazare, is an 1873 painting by Édouard Manet. It is the last painting by Manet of his favourite model, the fellow painter Victorine Meurent, who was also the model for his earlier works Olympia and the Luncheon on the Grass. It was exhibited at the Paris Salon in 1874, and donated to the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. in 1956.. The Railway, widely known as Gare Saint-Lazare, is an 1873 painting by Édouard Manet. It is the last painting by Manet of his favourite model, the fellow painter Victorine Meurent, who was also the model for his earlier works Olympia and the Luncheon on the Grass. It was exhibited at the Paris Salon in 1874, and donated to the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. in 1956..
Der Rote Turm in Halle. Author Name: Ernst Ludwig Kirchner. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Expressionism. . The Red Tower in Halle (German: Der Rote Turm in Halle) is a 1915 oil on canvas painting by a German expressionist painter and printmaker Ernst Ludwig Kirchner. It is now housed at Museum Folkwang, Essen.. The Red Tower in Halle (German: Der Rote Turm in Halle) is a 1915 oil on canvas painting by a German expressionist painter and printmaker Ernst Ludwig Kirchner. It is now housed at Museum Folkwang, Essen..
The Sacrament of the Last Supper. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The Sacrament of the Last Supper is a painting by Salvador Dalí. Completed in 1955, after nine months of work, it remains one of his most popular compositions. Since its arrival at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. in 1955, it replaced Renoir's A Girl with a Watering Can as the most popular piece in the museum.. The Sacrament of the Last Supper is a painting by Salvador Dalí. Completed in 1955, after nine months of work, it remains one of his most popular compositions. Since its arrival at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. in 1955, it replaced Renoir's A Girl with a Watering Can as the most popular piece in the museum..
The Sentry. Author Name: Carel Fabritius. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Delft_School_(painting). . The Sentry is a 1654 painting of a resting sentry and a dog by Carel Fabritius. It is an oil painting on canvas of 68 by 58 cm (27 by 23 in). The work is in the collection of the Staatliches Museum in Schwerin and was restored in 2004.. The Sentry is a 1654 painting of a resting sentry and a dog by Carel Fabritius. It is an oil painting on canvas of 68 by 58 cm (27 by 23 in). The work is in the collection of the Staatliches Museum in Schwerin and was restored in 2004..
The Seven Deadly Sins and the Four Last Things. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . The Seven Deadly Sins and the Four Last Things is a painting that has traditionally been attributed to Hieronymus Bosch, completed around 1500 or later. Since 1898 its authenticity has been questioned several times. The painting is oil on wood panels and is presented in a series of circular images.At the centre of the large circle, which is said to represent the eye of God, is a "pupil" in which Christ can be seen emerging from his tomb. Below this image is the Latin inscription Cave Cave Deus Videt ("Beware, Beware, God Sees").. The Seven Deadly Sins and the Four Last Things is a painting that has traditionally been attributed to Hieronymus Bosch, completed around 1500 or later. Since 1898 its authenticity has been questioned several times. The painting is oil on wood panels and is presented in a series of circular images. Four small circles, detailing the four last things — "Death of the Sinner", "Judgment", "Hell" and "Glory" — surround a larger circle in which the seven deadly sins are depicted: wrath at the bottom, then (proceeding clockwise) envy, greed, gluttony, sloth, extravagance (later replaced with lust), and pride, in scenes from life rather than in allegorical representations of the sins. At the centre of the large circle, which is said to represent the eye of God, is a "pupil" in which Christ can be seen emerging from his tomb. Below this image is the Latin inscription Cave Cave Deus Videt ("Beware, Beware, God Sees"). Above and below the central image are inscription in Latin of Deuteronomy 32:28-29, containing the lines "For they are a nation void of counsel, neither is there any understanding in them", above, and "O that they were wise, that they understood this, that they would consider their latter end!" below..
The Siege of Asola. Author Name: Tintoretto. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Siege of Asola is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance master Tintoretto, executed in 1544-1545. It is in a private collection.The canvas portrays two scenes. From the left to the middle is, in the foreground, a clash of knights occurred during the siege of the Venetian town of Asola by the troops of the Austrian emperor Maximilian I in 1516. Among the clashing soldiers is the banner of Asola, the fortress itself being shown in the background.. The Siege of Asola is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance master Tintoretto, executed in 1544-1545. It is in a private collection. The canvas portrays two scenes. From the left to the middle is, in the foreground, a clash of knights occurred during the siege of the Venetian town of Asola by the troops of the Austrian emperor Maximilian I in 1516. Among the clashing soldiers is the banner of Asola, the fortress itself being shown in the background. On the right is depicted to homage of the citizens of Asola to the Venetian provveditore (curator) Francesco Contarini, the nobleman who organized the city's defence and forced Maximilian's troop to withdraw..
The Skater. Author Name: Gilbert Stuart. . . The Skater is a 1782 oil on canvas portrait of William Grant by the American artist Gilbert Stuart. Painted while Stuart was living in London, it was the work that first brought the artist broad recognition.. The Skater is a 1782 oil on canvas portrait of William Grant by the American artist Gilbert Stuart. Painted while Stuart was living in London, it was the work that first brought the artist broad recognition..
The Sleeping Gypsy. Author Name: Henri Rousseau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Naïve_art. . The Sleeping Gypsy (French: La Bohémienne endormie) is an 1897 oil painting by French Naïve artist Henri Rousseau. It is a fantastical depiction of a lion musing over a sleeping woman on a moonlit night.The painting has served as inspiration for poetry and music, and has been altered and parodied by various artists often with the lion replaced by a dog or other animal. In the Simpsons episode "Mom and Pop Art" Homer dreams of waking up in the artwork with the lion licking his head. A print of the work appears in the movie "The Apartment" above the comatose Fran Kubelik.. The Sleeping Gypsy (French: La Bohémienne endormie) is an 1897 oil painting by French Naïve artist Henri Rousseau. It is a fantastical depiction of a lion musing over a sleeping woman on a moonlit night. Rousseau first exhibited the painting at the 13th Salon des Indépendants, and tried unsuccessfully to sell it to the mayor of his hometown, Laval. Instead, it entered the private collection of a Parisian charcoal merchant where it remained until 1924, when it was discovered by the art critic Louis Vauxcelles. The Paris-based art dealer Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler purchased the painting in 1924, although a controversy arose over whether the painting was a forgery. It was acquired by art historian Alfred H. Barr Jr. for the New York Museum of Modern Art. The painting has served as inspiration for poetry and music, and has been altered and parodied by various artists often with the lion replaced by a dog or other animal. In the Simpsons episode "Mom and Pop Art" Homer dreams of waking up in the artwork with the lion licking his head. A print of the work appears in the movie "The Apartment" above the comatose Fran Kubelik..
The Snail. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . The Snail (L'escargot) is a collage by Henri Matisse.The work was created from summer 1952 to early 1953. It is pigmented with gouache on paper, cut and pasted onto a base layer of white paper measuring 9'43⁄4" × 9' 5" (287 × 288 cm). The piece is in the Stedelijk museum collection in Amsterdam.. The Snail (L'escargot) is a collage by Henri Matisse. The work was created from summer 1952 to early 1953. It is pigmented with gouache on paper, cut and pasted onto a base layer of white paper measuring 9'43⁄4" × 9' 5" (287 × 288 cm). The piece is in the Stedelijk museum collection in Amsterdam. It consists of a number of colored shapes arranged in a spiral pattern, as suggested by the title. Matisse first drew the snail, then used the colored paper to interpret it. The composition pairs complementary colors: Matisse gave the work the alternative title La Composition Chromatique (chromatic composition). From the early-to-mid-1940s Matisse was in increasingly poor health, and was suffering from arthritis. Eventually by 1950 he stopped painting in favor of gouaches découpées, paper cutouts. The Snail is a major example of this final body of works..
The Sorrows of the King. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . The Sorrows of the King is a collage using cut out paper shapes by Henri Matisse from 1952. It was made from paper he had coloured with gouache paint and is mounted on canvas. Its size is 292 x 386 cm. It is his final self-portrait. During the early-to-mid-1940s Matisse was in poor health. Eventually by 1950 he stopped painting in favor of his paper cutouts. The Sorrows of the King, is an example of Matisse's final body of works known as the cutouts.. The Sorrows of the King is a collage using cut out paper shapes by Henri Matisse from 1952. It was made from paper he had coloured with gouache paint and is mounted on canvas. Its size is 292 x 386 cm. It is his final self-portrait. During the early-to-mid-1940s Matisse was in poor health. Eventually by 1950 he stopped painting in favor of his paper cutouts. The Sorrows of the King, is an example of Matisse's final body of works known as the cutouts..
The Stolen Kiss. Author Name: Jean-Honoré Fragonard. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Rococo. . The Stolen Kiss is a painting by French painter Jean Honore Fragonard (1732–1806) from the end of the 1780s, depicting a secretive romance. The painting was hosted in the collection of the Hermitage, in St. Petersburg. The style of the painting was characteristic of the French Rococo period and was favoured by the wealthy art patrons of his time.. The Stolen Kiss is a painting by French painter Jean Honore Fragonard (1732–1806) from the end of the 1780s, depicting a secretive romance. The painting was hosted in the collection of the Hermitage, in St. Petersburg. The style of the painting was characteristic of the French Rococo period and was favoured by the wealthy art patrons of his time..
Storm at Sea. Author Name: Pieter Bruegel the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_and_Flemish_Renaissance_painting. . Storm at Sea is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in c. 1569. It is currently held and exhibited at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna.. Storm at Sea is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in c. 1569. It is currently held and exhibited at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna..
The Storm on the Sea of Galilee. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Storm on the Sea of Galilee is a painting from 1633 by the Dutch Golden Age painter Rembrandt van Rijn that was in the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum of Boston, Massachusetts, United States, prior to being stolen in 1990. The painting depicts the miracle of Jesus calming the storm on the Sea of Galilee, as depicted in the fourth chapter of the Gospel of Mark in the New Testament of the Christian Bible. It is Rembrandt's only seascape.. The Storm on the Sea of Galilee is a painting from 1633 by the Dutch Golden Age painter Rembrandt van Rijn that was in the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum of Boston, Massachusetts, United States, prior to being stolen in 1990. The painting depicts the miracle of Jesus calming the storm on the Sea of Galilee, as depicted in the fourth chapter of the Gospel of Mark in the New Testament of the Christian Bible. It is Rembrandt's only seascape..
The Street Enters The House. Author Name: Umberto Boccioni. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Futurism. . The Street Enters the House (La Strada Entra Nella Casa) is an oil on canvas painting by Italian artist Umberto Boccioni. Painted in the Futurist style, the work centres on a woman on a balcony in front of a busy street, with the sounds of the activity below portrayed as a riot of shapes and colours.The first public display of the painting was in Paris, in 1912, as part of the first Futurist exhibition. It is now housed in the Sprengel Museum in Hanover, Germany.. The Street Enters the House (La Strada Entra Nella Casa) is an oil on canvas painting by Italian artist Umberto Boccioni. Painted in the Futurist style, the work centres on a woman on a balcony in front of a busy street, with the sounds of the activity below portrayed as a riot of shapes and colours. The first public display of the painting was in Paris, in 1912, as part of the first Futurist exhibition. It is now housed in the Sprengel Museum in Hanover, Germany..
The Subsiding of the Waters of the Deluge. Author Name: Thomas Cole. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Hudson_River_School. . The Subsiding of the Waters of the Deluge is an 1829 painting by English-born American artist Thomas Cole depicting the aftermath of the Great Flood.The painting is an 90.8 x 121.4 cm oil on canvas. It is on display at the Smithsonian American Art Museum in Washington, D.C... The Subsiding of the Waters of the Deluge is an 1829 painting by English-born American artist Thomas Cole depicting the aftermath of the Great Flood. The painting is an 90.8 x 121.4 cm oil on canvas. It is on display at the Smithsonian American Art Museum in Washington, D.C...
The Suicide of Saul. Author Name: Pieter Bruegel the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_and_Flemish_Renaissance_painting. . The Suicide of Saul is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in 1562. It is currently held and exhibited at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna.. The Suicide of Saul is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in 1562. It is currently held and exhibited at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna..
Sólfar. Author Name: Arnason, Jon Gunnar. . . Sun Voyager (Icelandic: Sólfar) is sculpture by Jón Gunnar Árnason (1931 - 1989). Sun Voyager is a dreamboat, an ode to the sun. Intrinsically, it contains within itself the promise of undiscovered territory, a dream of hope, progress and freedom. The sculpture is located by Sæbraut, by the sea in the centre of Reykjavík, Iceland.. Sun Voyager (Icelandic: Sólfar) is sculpture by Jón Gunnar Árnason (1931 - 1989). Sun Voyager is a dreamboat, an ode to the sun. Intrinsically, it contains within itself the promise of undiscovered territory, a dream of hope, progress and freedom. The sculpture is located by Sæbraut, by the sea in the centre of Reykjavík, Iceland..
The Surrender of Breda. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . La rendición de Breda (English: The Surrender of Breda, also known as El cuadro de las lanzas or Las lanzas) is a painting by the Spanish Golden Age painter Diego Velázquez. It was completed during the years 1634–35, inspired by Velázquez's visit to Italy with Ambrogio Spinola, the Genoese general who conquered Breda on June 5, 1625. It is considered one of Velázquez's best works. Jan Morris has called it "one of the most Spanish of all pictures".. La rendición de Breda (English: The Surrender of Breda, also known as El cuadro de las lanzas or Las lanzas) is a painting by the Spanish Golden Age painter Diego Velázquez. It was completed during the years 1634–35, inspired by Velázquez's visit to Italy with Ambrogio Spinola, the Genoese general who conquered Breda on June 5, 1625. It is considered one of Velázquez's best works. Jan Morris has called it "one of the most Spanish of all pictures"..
La balançoire. Author Name: Pierre-Auguste Renoir. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Swing (French: La balançoire) is an oil on canvas painting by the French artist Pierre-Auguste Renoir who was a leading exponent of the Impressionist style. The painting was executed in 1876. The painting measures 41 x 23 centimetres and is in the Musée d’Orsay. Renoir executed the painting in what are now the Musée de Montmartre gardens. He had rented a cottage in the gardens so that he be could closer to the Moulin de la Galette where he was engaged in painting Bal du moulin de la Galette.. The Swing (French: La balançoire) is an oil on canvas painting by the French artist Pierre-Auguste Renoir who was a leading exponent of the Impressionist style. The painting was executed in 1876. The painting measures 41 x 23 centimetres and is in the Musée d’Orsay. Renoir executed the painting in what are now the Musée de Montmartre gardens. He had rented a cottage in the gardens so that he be could closer to the Moulin de la Galette where he was engaged in painting Bal du moulin de la Galette..
Le Téléscope. Author Name: René Magritte. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Surrealism. . The Telescope (French: Le Téléscope) is a 1963 oil on canvas painting by René Magritte.The painting depicts a window through which a partly clouded blue sky can be seen. However, the right side of the window is partially open, revealing a black background where the viewer would expect to see a continuation of the clouds and sky.. The Telescope (French: Le Téléscope) is a 1963 oil on canvas painting by René Magritte. The painting depicts a window through which a partly clouded blue sky can be seen. However, the right side of the window is partially open, revealing a black background where the viewer would expect to see a continuation of the clouds and sky..
The Tempest. Author Name: Giorgione. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Tempest (Italian La Tempesta) is a Renaissance painting by Italian master Giorgione dated between 1506 and 1508. Originally commissioned by the Venetian noble Gabriele Vendramin, the painting is housed in the Gallerie dell'Accademia of Venice, Italy.. The Tempest (Italian La Tempesta) is a Renaissance painting by Italian master Giorgione dated between 1506 and 1508. Originally commissioned by the Venetian noble Gabriele Vendramin, the painting is housed in the Gallerie dell'Accademia of Venice, Italy..
The Test of Fire of Moses. Author Name: Giorgione. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Test of Fire of Moses is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giorgione (1500-1501). It is housed in the Galleria degli Uffizi of Florence.The work is dimensionally and thematically similar to the its Pendant painting Judgement of Salomon, also in the Uffizi, and is dated to the years immediately after Giorgione's moving to Venice.The episode is taken from the Talmud, and was probably commissioned by an acculturated person who was not entirely following to the official Roman Catholic positions.. The Test of Fire of Moses is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giorgione (1500-1501). It is housed in the Galleria degli Uffizi of Florence. The work is dimensionally and thematically similar to the its Pendant painting Judgement of Salomon, also in the Uffizi, and is dated to the years immediately after Giorgione's moving to Venice. The episode is taken from the Talmud, and was probably commissioned by an acculturated person who was not entirely following to the official Roman Catholic positions. The horizontal setting is similar to that in Giovanni Bellini's Holy Allegory, also in the Uffizi, and allows the painter to give importance to the landscape. In the latter's care for detail are evident influences from Northern Europe painting..
The Third-Class Carriage. Author Name: Honoré Daumier. . . The Third-Class Carriage is a c. 1862-1864 oil on canvas painting by Honoré Daumier, in the collection of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. A similar painting by Daumier with the same title is in the National Gallery of Canada.Daumier had drawn and painted images of rail travel since the 1840s. This version of The Third-Class Carriage appears to be closely related to an 1864 watercolor now in the Walters Art Museum. The painting is unfinished, and is squared for transfer.The painting entered the Metropolitan Museum in 1929 as part of the H. O. Havemeyer bequest.. The Third-Class Carriage is a c. 1862-1864 oil on canvas painting by Honoré Daumier, in the collection of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. A similar painting by Daumier with the same title is in the National Gallery of Canada. Daumier had drawn and painted images of rail travel since the 1840s. This version of The Third-Class Carriage appears to be closely related to an 1864 watercolor now in the Walters Art Museum. The painting is unfinished, and is squared for transfer. The Third-Class Carriage evidences Daumier's interest, as also seen in his graphic works, in the lives of working-class Parisians. Third-class railway carriages were cramped, dirty, open compartments with hard benches, filled with those who could not afford second or first-class tickets. In the bench facing the viewer are seated, from left, a woman holding her baby, an older woman with her hands clasped atop a basket, and a young boy asleep. Seated behind them are anonymous rows of women and men. The painting entered the Metropolitan Museum in 1929 as part of the H. O. Havemeyer bequest..
The Threatened Swan. Author Name: Jan Asselijn. . . The Threatened Swan (Dutch: De bedreigde zwaan) is an oil painting of a swan made around 1650 by Dutch Golden Age painter Jan Asselijn. The work is in the collection of the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam in the Netherlands.The oil painting on canvas is 144 centimetres (57 in) high and 171 centimetres (67 in) wide. The painting's subject is a life-size mute swan (Cygnus olor) defending its nest against a dog. At the bottom right, the painting is signed with the monogram "A".. The Threatened Swan (Dutch: De bedreigde zwaan) is an oil painting of a swan made around 1650 by Dutch Golden Age painter Jan Asselijn. The work is in the collection of the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam in the Netherlands. The oil painting on canvas is 144 centimetres (57 in) high and 171 centimetres (67 in) wide. The painting's subject is a life-size mute swan (Cygnus olor) defending its nest against a dog. At the bottom right, the painting is signed with the monogram "A". By 1880, the painting was interpreted as a political allegory of grand pensionary (the highest official in the Dutch Republic) Johan de Witt protecting the country from its enemies. Three inscriptions had been added: the words "de raad-pensionaris" (the grand pensionary) between the swan's legs, the words "de viand van de staat" (the enemy of the state) above the head of the dog on the left, and the name "Holland" on the egg on the right..
The Three Philosophers. Author Name: Giorgione. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Three Philosophers is an oil painting on canvas attributed to the Italian High Renaissance artist Giorgione. It shows three philosophers - one young, one middle-aged, and one old.The work was commissioned by the Venetian noble Taddeo Contarini, a Venetian merchant with an interest in the occult and alchemy. The Three Philosophers was finished one year before the painter died. One of Giorgione’s last paintings, it is now displayed at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna. The painting was finished by Sebastiano del Piombo.. The Three Philosophers is an oil painting on canvas attributed to the Italian High Renaissance artist Giorgione. It shows three philosophers - one young, one middle-aged, and one old.The work was commissioned by the Venetian noble Taddeo Contarini, a Venetian merchant with an interest in the occult and alchemy. The Three Philosophers was finished one year before the painter died. One of Giorgione’s last paintings, it is now displayed at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna. The painting was finished by Sebastiano del Piombo..
The Titan's Goblet. Author Name: Thomas Cole. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Hudson_River_School. . The Titan's Goblet is an oil painting by the English-born American landscape artist Thomas Cole. Painted in 1833, it is perhaps the most enigmatic of Cole's allegorical or imaginary landscape scenes. It is a work that "defies full explanation", according to the Metropolitan Museum of Art. The Titan's Goblet has been called a "picture within a picture" and a "landscape within a landscape": the goblet stands on conventional terrain, but its inhabitants live along its rim in a world all their own. Vegetation covers the entire brim, broken only by two tiny buildings, a Greek temple and an Italian palace. The vast waters are dotted with sailing vessels. Where the water spills upon the ground below, grass and a more rudimentary civilization spring up.. The Titan's Goblet is an oil painting by the English-born American landscape artist Thomas Cole. Painted in 1833, it is perhaps the most enigmatic of Cole's allegorical or imaginary landscape scenes. It is a work that "defies full explanation", according to the Metropolitan Museum of Art. The Titan's Goblet has been called a "picture within a picture" and a "landscape within a landscape": the goblet stands on conventional terrain, but its inhabitants live along its rim in a world all their own. Vegetation covers the entire brim, broken only by two tiny buildings, a Greek temple and an Italian palace. The vast waters are dotted with sailing vessels. Where the water spills upon the ground below, grass and a more rudimentary civilization spring up..
The Tortoise Trainer. Author Name: Osman Hamdi Bey. . . The Tortoise Trainer (Turkish: Kaplumbağa Terbiyecisi) is a painting by Osman Hamdi Bey which was crafted in 1906 and 1907 (two versions). In 2004 it was sold for $3.5M and is currently displayed at the Pera Museum in Istanbul.. The Tortoise Trainer (Turkish: Kaplumbağa Terbiyecisi) is a painting by Osman Hamdi Bey which was crafted in 1906 and 1907 (two versions). In 2004 it was sold for $3.5M and is currently displayed at the Pera Museum in Istanbul. In the Tortoise Trainer, Osman Hamdi Bey satirises the slow and ineffective attempts at reforming the Ottoman Empire, through the attempts of an anachronistic historical character to train tortoises. The painting depicts an elderly man in traditional Ottoman religious costume which predates the introduction of the fez and the spread of Western style dress with the Tanzimat reforms in the mid 19th century. He holds a traditional ney flute with which he is attempting to "train" the tortoises at his feet..
L'Arbre de Vie, Stoclet Frieze. Author Name: Gustav Klimt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Art_Nouveau. . The Tree of Life, Stoclet Frieze (French: L'Arbre de Vie, Stoclet Frieze) is a painting by an Austrian symbolist painter Gustav Klimt. It was completed in 1909 and is based on the Art Nouveau (Modern) style in a symbolic painting genre. The dimensions of the painting are 195 by 102 centimetres (77 by 40 in), and it is housed at the Museum of Applied Arts, Vienna, Austria.. The Tree of Life, Stoclet Frieze (French: L'Arbre de Vie, Stoclet Frieze) is a painting by an Austrian symbolist painter Gustav Klimt. It was completed in 1909 and is based on the Art Nouveau (Modern) style in a symbolic painting genre. The dimensions of the painting are 195 by 102 centimetres (77 by 40 in), and it is housed at the Museum of Applied Arts, Vienna, Austria. The painting is a study for a series of three mosaics created by Klimt for a 1905-1911 commissioned work at the Palais Stoclet in Brussels, Belgium.The mosaics were created in the artist's Late Works period, and depict swirling Trees of Life, a standing female figure and an embracing couple. The mosaics are spread across three walls of the Palais' dining room, along with two figural sections set opposite each other. The iconic painting later inspired the external facade of the "New Residence Hall" (also called the "Tree House"), a colorful 21-story student residence hall at Massachusetts College of Art and Design in Boston, Massachusetts..
Cristo della moneta. Author Name: Titian. . . The Tribute Money (Italian: Cristo della moneta - literally Christ of the coin) is a c. 1516 oil painting by Titian, now held at the Gemäldegalerie Alte Meister in Dresden. It is signed "Ticianus F.[ecit]", painted on the trim of the Pharisee's collar. It depicts Christ and a Pharisee at the moment in the Gospels (Matthew 22:15-22, Mark 12:13-17, Luke 20:20-26) when Christ is shown a coin and says "Render unto Caesar..." Giorgio Vasari thought the head of Christ the 'most stupendous and miraculous' thing painted by Titian and that all artists at the time believed it to be an insuperable achievement.. The Tribute Money (Italian: Cristo della moneta - literally Christ of the coin) is a c. 1516 oil painting by Titian, now held at the Gemäldegalerie Alte Meister in Dresden. It is signed "Ticianus F.[ecit]", painted on the trim of the Pharisee's collar. It depicts Christ and a Pharisee at the moment in the Gospels (Matthew 22:15-22, Mark 12:13-17, Luke 20:20-26) when Christ is shown a coin and says "Render unto Caesar..." Giorgio Vasari thought the head of Christ the 'most stupendous and miraculous' thing painted by Titian and that all artists at the time believed it to be an insuperable achievement..
The Visitors. Author Name: Ragnar Kjartansson. . . The Visitors is a 2012 installation and video art piece created by Ragnar Kjartansson. Kjartansson named the piece for The Visitors, the final album by the Swedish pop band ABBA. The piece was commissioned by the Migros Museum in Zurich, and was one of the museum's inaugural exhibits. The premiere of the piece marked Kjartansson's first solo show in Switzerland.. The Visitors is a 2012 installation and video art piece created by Ragnar Kjartansson. Kjartansson named the piece for The Visitors, the final album by the Swedish pop band ABBA. The piece was commissioned by the Migros Museum in Zurich, and was one of the museum's inaugural exhibits. The premiere of the piece marked Kjartansson's first solo show in Switzerland..
The Wheat Sifters. Author Name: Gustave Courbet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Wheat Sifters (Les Cribleuses de Blé) is an 1854 painting by Gustave Courbet.It was exhibited at the Salon of 1855 in Paris, then in 1861 at the ninth exhibition of the Society of Friends of the Art of Nantes, which then bought the painting for the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Nantes.Both young women are probably the two sisters of Courbet: Zoe (in the center) and Juliet (seated). The boy could be Désiré Binet, the illegitimate son of the painter.. The Wheat Sifters (Les Cribleuses de Blé) is an 1854 painting by Gustave Courbet. It was exhibited at the Salon of 1855 in Paris, then in 1861 at the ninth exhibition of the Society of Friends of the Art of Nantes, which then bought the painting for the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Nantes. Both young women are probably the two sisters of Courbet: Zoe (in the center) and Juliet (seated). The boy could be Désiré Binet, the illegitimate son of the painter..
The Wine of Saint Martin's Day. Author Name: Pieter Bruegel the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_and_Flemish_Renaissance_painting. . The Wine of Saint Martin's Day is the largest painting by Pieter Bruegel the Elder. It is currently held in the Museo del Prado, Madrid, where it was identified as a Breugel original in 2010. Like much of Bruegel's work it depicts peasant life, in this case a festival known as St. Martin's Day, which involves drinking the first wine of the season.. The Wine of Saint Martin's Day is the largest painting by Pieter Bruegel the Elder. It is currently held in the Museo del Prado, Madrid, where it was identified as a Breugel original in 2010. Like much of Bruegel's work it depicts peasant life, in this case a festival known as St. Martin's Day, which involves drinking the first wine of the season..
The Wounded Angel. Author Name: Hugo Simberg. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Symbolism_(arts). . The Wounded Angel (Finnish: Haavoittunut enkeli) (1903) is a painting by Finnish symbolist painter Hugo Simberg. It is one of the most recognizable of Simberg's works, and was voted Finland's "national painting" in a vote held by the Ateneum art museum in 2006.Like other Simberg works, the atmosphere is melancholic: the angelic central figure with her bandaged forehead and bloodied wing, the sombre clothing of her two youthful bearers. The direct gaze of the right-hand figure touches the viewer.. The Wounded Angel (Finnish: Haavoittunut enkeli) (1903) is a painting by Finnish symbolist painter Hugo Simberg. It is one of the most recognizable of Simberg's works, and was voted Finland's "national painting" in a vote held by the Ateneum art museum in 2006. Like other Simberg works, the atmosphere is melancholic: the angelic central figure with her bandaged forehead and bloodied wing, the sombre clothing of her two youthful bearers. The direct gaze of the right-hand figure touches the viewer. The procession passes through a recognisable landscape, that of Eläintarha, Helsinki, with Töölönlahti Bay in the background. The same road still skirts Töölönlahti Bay today. In Hugo Simberg’s time, the park was a popular spot for leisure-time activities among the working classes. At the time, many charity institutions were located in Eläintarha park; in The Wounded Angel the healthy boys are carrying the injured girl towards the Blind Girls’ School and the Home for Cripples. She clutches a bunch of snowdrops, symbolic of healing and rebirth. Simberg himself declined to offer any deconstruction, suggesting that the viewer draw their own conclusions. However it is known that Simberg had been suffering from meningitis, and that the painting was a source of strength during his recovery. This can also be read metaphorically: meningitis is known to cause neck stiffness, lethargy and light sensitivity, each of which is exhibited by the central figure. If read as lungs rather than wings, such a diagnosis even explains the minor injury, as tuberculor meningitis causes abrasions to the upper lungs. When Simberg was asked to paint frescoes for the Tampere Cathedral in 1905–06, one was a larger version of The Wounded Angel, his favorite painting..
The Wounded Man. Author Name: Gustave Courbet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Wounded Man (French: L'Homme blessé) is an 1844-1854 self-portrait by Gustave Courbet.. The Wounded Man (French: L'Homme blessé) is an 1844-1854 self-portrait by Gustave Courbet..
The Young Sailor II. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . The Young Sailor II is a painting by Henri Matisse from 1906.. The Young Sailor II is a painting by Henri Matisse from 1906..
The kill of deer. Author Name: Gustave Courbet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The kill of deer (L'Hallali au cerf in French), is a very large picture (355 by 505 cm), representing a hunting scene, painted in 1867 by Gustave Courbet. The picture is currently on display in the Musée d'Orsay of Paris.. The kill of deer (L'Hallali au cerf in French), is a very large picture (355 by 505 cm), representing a hunting scene, painted in 1867 by Gustave Courbet. The picture is currently on display in the Musée d'Orsay of Paris..
Three Beauties of the Present Day. Author Name: Kitagawa Utamaro. . . Three Beauties of the Present Day (当時三美人 Tōji San Bijin) is a nishiki-e colour woodblock print from c. 1792–93 by Japanese ukiyo-e artist Kitagawa Utamaro (c. 1753–1806). The triangular composition depicts the busts of three celebrity beauties of the time: geisha Tomimoto Toyohina, and teahouse waitresses Naniwa Kita and Takashima Hisa. The print is also known under the titles Three Beauties of the Kansei Era (寛政三美人 Kansei San Bijin) and Three Famous Beauties (高名三美人 Kōmei San Bijin).. Three Beauties of the Present Day (当時三美人 Tōji San Bijin) is a nishiki-e colour woodblock print from c. 1792–93 by Japanese ukiyo-e artist Kitagawa Utamaro (c. 1753–1806). The triangular composition depicts the busts of three celebrity beauties of the time: geisha Tomimoto Toyohina, and teahouse waitresses Naniwa Kita and Takashima Hisa. The print is also known under the titles Three Beauties of the Kansei Era (寛政三美人 Kansei San Bijin) and Three Famous Beauties (高名三美人 Kōmei San Bijin). Utamaro was the leading ukiyo-e artist in the 1790s in the bijin-ga genre of pictures of female beauties. He was known for his ōkubi-e, which focus on the heads. The three models in Three Beauties of the Present Day were frequent subjects of Utamaro's portraiture. Each figure in the work is adorned with an identifying family crest. The portraits are idealized, and at first glance their faces seem similar, but subtle differences in their features and expressions can be detected—a level of realism at the time unusual in ukiyo-e, and a contrast with the stereotyped beauties in earlier masters such as Harunobu and Kiyonaga. The luxurious print was published by Tsutaya Jūzaburō and made with multiple woodblocks—one for each colour—and the background was dusted with muscovite to produce a glimmering effect. It is believed to have been quite popular, and the triangular positioning became a vogue in the 1790s. Utamaro produced several other pictures with the same arrangement of the same three beauties, and all three appeared in numerous other portraits by Utamaro and other artists..
Three Flags. Author Name: Jasper Johns. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . Three Flags is a 1958 painting by American artist Jasper Johns.The work comprises three canvases painted with hot wax. The three canvases form a tiered arrangement, with each canvas approximately 25% smaller than the one below, thereby creating a three-dimensional work. Each canvas is painted to resemble the version of the United States flag that was in use at the time the work was painted, with 48 white stars in a blue canton on a field of thirteen alternating red and white stripes. Each flag is rendered with the approximately correct colors and proportions, as defined by Title 4 of the United States Code.. Three Flags is a 1958 painting by American artist Jasper Johns. The work comprises three canvases painted with hot wax. The three canvases form a tiered arrangement, with each canvas approximately 25% smaller than the one below, thereby creating a three-dimensional work. Each canvas is painted to resemble the version of the United States flag that was in use at the time the work was painted, with 48 white stars in a blue canton on a field of thirteen alternating red and white stripes. Each flag is rendered with the approximately correct colors and proportions, as defined by Title 4 of the United States Code. In a sense, the perspective is reversed, with the smaller paintings projecting out towards the viewer. Only the topmost smallest painting is fully visible; the two behind are only partially visible. The painting was acquired by the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York City for $1 million in 1980, to celebrate its 50th anniversary..
Three Women. Author Name: Umberto Boccioni. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Futurism. . Three Women or Tre donne was painted by Umberto Boccioni between the years of 1909 and 1910. This painting is oil on canvas painted in the style of divisionism. Divisionism refers to the actual division of colors by creating separated brush strokes as opposed to smooth, solid lines. The painting contains three figures, one being Boccioni’s mother Cecilia on the left, another being his sister, Amelia on the right, and the third being Ines, his lover, in the center.. Three Women or Tre donne was painted by Umberto Boccioni between the years of 1909 and 1910. This painting is oil on canvas painted in the style of divisionism. Divisionism refers to the actual division of colors by creating separated brush strokes as opposed to smooth, solid lines. The painting contains three figures, one being Boccioni’s mother Cecilia on the left, another being his sister, Amelia on the right, and the third being Ines, his lover, in the center..
Tidying Up. Author Name: Isabel Bishop. . . Tidying Up is an oil painting by American artist Isabel Bishop. It is currently in the permanent collection at the Indianapolis Museum of Art.. Tidying Up is an oil painting by American artist Isabel Bishop. It is currently in the permanent collection at the Indianapolis Museum of Art..
La Durée poignardée. Author Name: René Magritte. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Surrealism. . Time Transfixed (La Durée poignardée) is an oil on canvas painting by the Belgian surrealist René Magritte. It is part of the permanent collection of the Art Institute of Chicago and is usually on display in the museum's new Modern Wing.The painting depicts an LMS[citation needed] 4-6-0 Locomotive jutting out of a fireplace, at full steam, in an empty room. Above the mantelpiece is a tall mirror. Only the clock and one candlestick standing on the mantelpiece are reflected in the mirror, suggesting that there are neither people nor furniture in the room.. Time Transfixed (La Durée poignardée) is an oil on canvas painting by the Belgian surrealist René Magritte. It is part of the permanent collection of the Art Institute of Chicago and is usually on display in the museum's new Modern Wing. The painting was one of many done for surrealist patron and Magritte supporter Edward James. This was the second painting delivered to James for his London ballroom. The first was the portrait of James, Not to be Reproduced. Time Transfixed was purchased by the Art Institute from James in 1970 when he was raising capital to build his surrealist sculpture garden Las Pozas.[citation needed] The painting depicts an LMS[citation needed] 4-6-0 Locomotive jutting out of a fireplace, at full steam, in an empty room. Above the mantelpiece is a tall mirror. Only the clock and one candlestick standing on the mantelpiece are reflected in the mirror, suggesting that there are neither people nor furniture in the room..
Tobias and the Angel. Author Name: Filippino Lippi. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Tobias and the Angel is a painting by the Florentine Renaissance painter Filippino Lippi, dating from c. 1475-1480. It is housed in the National Gallery of Art of Washington, DC.. Tobias and the Angel is a painting by the Florentine Renaissance painter Filippino Lippi, dating from c. 1475-1480. It is housed in the National Gallery of Art of Washington, DC..
Torpedo...Los!. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Torpedo...Los! (sometimes Torpedo...LOS!) is a 1963 pop art oil on canvas painting by Roy Lichtenstein. When it was last sold in 1989, The New York Times described the work as "a comic-strip image of sea warfare". It formerly held the record for the highest auction price for a Lichtenstein work. Its 1989 sale helped finance the construction of the current home of the Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago in 1991.. Torpedo...Los! (sometimes Torpedo...LOS!) is a 1963 pop art oil on canvas painting by Roy Lichtenstein. When it was last sold in 1989, The New York Times described the work as "a comic-strip image of sea warfare". It formerly held the record for the highest auction price for a Lichtenstein work. Its 1989 sale helped finance the construction of the current home of the Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago in 1991. Like many of Lichtenstein's works its title comes from the speech balloon in the painting. The work was included in Lichtenstein's second solo exhibition. The source of the image is a comic book from DC Comics. Lichtenstein has made significant alterations to the original image to change the focus and perspective in addition to significant alteration of the narrative element of the work. The work plays on the background-foreground relationship and the theme of vision that appears in many of Lichtenstein's works..
The Tribuna of the Uffizi. Author Name: Johan Zoffany. . . The Tribuna of the Uffizi (1772–1778) by Johann Zoffany is a painting of the north-east section of the Tribuna room in the Uffizi in Florence, Italy. The painting is part of the United Kingdom's Royal Collection.. The Tribuna of the Uffizi (1772–1778) by Johann Zoffany is a painting of the north-east section of the Tribuna room in the Uffizi in Florence, Italy. The painting is part of the United Kingdom's Royal Collection..
Triumph of the Virtues. Author Name: Andrea Mantegna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Triumph of the Virtues (also known as Minerva Expelling the Vices from the Garden of Virtue) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Andrea Mantegna, executed in 1502. It is housed in the Musée du Louvre of Paris.. The Triumph of the Virtues (also known as Minerva Expelling the Vices from the Garden of Virtue) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Andrea Mantegna, executed in 1502. It is housed in the Musée du Louvre of Paris. The triumph was the second picture painted by Mantegna for Isabella d'Este's studiolo (cabinet), after the Parnassus of 1497. It portrays a marsh enclosed by a tall fence, ruled over by the Vices, portrayed as hideous figures and identified by scrolls in a typically medieval way. Idleness is chased by Minerva, who is also rescuing Diana, goddess of chastity, from being raped by a Centaur, symbol of concupiscence. Next to Minerva is a tree with human features. High in the sky are the three primary moral virtues required to perfect the appetitive powers: Justice, Temperance and Fortitude..
Trivulzio Madonna. Author Name: Andrea Mantegna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Trivulzio Madonna is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Andrea Mantegna, executed in 1497. It is housed in the Sforza Castle Pinacoteca of the Castello Sforzesco, Milan.The work portrays the Madonna enthroned surrounded by several saints. The theme of the cherubim surrounding the Madonna is a reference to Annunciation. On the side the saints are surmounted by two citrus trees, the two figures in the foreground are portrayed in order to be observed from a lower position. In the lower centre are three busts of chanting angels around an organ, an allusion the Olivetan church of Santa Maria in Organo at Verona, for which the panel was executed. The current name comes from the Trivulzio Collection of Milan, to which it belonged from 1791 to 1935.. The Trivulzio Madonna is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Andrea Mantegna, executed in 1497. It is housed in the Sforza Castle Pinacoteca of the Castello Sforzesco, Milan. The work portrays the Madonna enthroned surrounded by several saints. The theme of the cherubim surrounding the Madonna is a reference to Annunciation. On the side the saints are surmounted by two citrus trees, the two figures in the foreground are portrayed in order to be observed from a lower position. In the lower centre are three busts of chanting angels around an organ, an allusion the Olivetan church of Santa Maria in Organo at Verona, for which the panel was executed. The current name comes from the Trivulzio Collection of Milan, to which it belonged from 1791 to 1935..
Turkish Slave. Author Name: Parmigianino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . Turkish Slave (Portrait of a Young Woman; Italian: Schiava turca) is a painting by the Italian Mannerist artist Parmigianino, executed around 1533. It is housed in the Galleria nazionale di Parma, northern Italy.The title of "Turkish Slave" derives from the misinterpretation of the sitter's headwear as a turban. It is in fact a typical headdress of noblewomen of the time, with examples appearing in numerous contemporary portraits.. Turkish Slave (Portrait of a Young Woman; Italian: Schiava turca) is a painting by the Italian Mannerist artist Parmigianino, executed around 1533. It is housed in the Galleria nazionale di Parma, northern Italy. The title of "Turkish Slave" derives from the misinterpretation of the sitter's headwear as a turban. It is in fact a typical headdress of noblewomen of the time, with examples appearing in numerous contemporary portraits..
Twittering Machine. Author Name: Paul Klee. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Bauhaus. . Twittering Machine (Die Zwitscher-Maschine) is a 1922 watercolor and pen and ink oil transfer on paper by Swiss-German painter Paul Klee. Like other artworks by Klee, it blends biology and machinery, depicting a loosely sketched group of birds on a wire or branch connected to a hand-crank. Interpretations of the work vary widely: it has been perceived as a nightmarish lure for the viewer or a depiction of the helplessness of the artist, but also as a triumph of nature over mechanical pursuits. It has been seen as a visual representation of the mechanics of sound.. Twittering Machine (Die Zwitscher-Maschine) is a 1922 watercolor and pen and ink oil transfer on paper by Swiss-German painter Paul Klee. Like other artworks by Klee, it blends biology and machinery, depicting a loosely sketched group of birds on a wire or branch connected to a hand-crank. Interpretations of the work vary widely: it has been perceived as a nightmarish lure for the viewer or a depiction of the helplessness of the artist, but also as a triumph of nature over mechanical pursuits. It has been seen as a visual representation of the mechanics of sound. Originally displayed in Germany, the image was declared "degenerate art" by Adolf Hitler in 1933 and sold by the Nazi party to an art dealer in 1939, whence it made its way to New York. One of the better known of more than 9,000 works produced by Klee, it is among the more famous images of the New York Museum of Modern Art (MoMA). It has inspired several musical compositions and, according to a 1987 magazine profile in New York Magazine, has been a popular piece to hang in children's bedrooms..
Two Rats. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Two Rats is an oil painting created in 1884 by Vincent van Gogh.. Two Rats is an oil painting created in 1884 by Vincent van Gogh..
Ulysses and the Sirens. Author Name: Herbert James Draper. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Classicism. . Ulysses and the Sirens is a 1909 oil painting by Herbert James Draper measuring 69.25 x 84 in. It is held at the Ferens Art Gallery in Kingston upon Hull, England. The gallery purchased the painting from Draper in 1910 for £600. Draper also painted a reduced replica that is housed at the Leeds Art Gallery. The subject of the painting is an episode in the epic poem Odyssey by Homer in which Ulysses is tormented by the voices of Sirens, although there are only two Sirens in Homer's poem and they stay in a meadow. The painting depicts Ulysses tied to the mast and forcibly attendant to the Sirens' seductions. Although the Sirens were depicted in ancient Greek art as scary, ugly creatures, Draper maintains the spirit but not the content of the story by transferring the Sirens' seductiveness fro. Ulysses and the Sirens is a 1909 oil painting by Herbert James Draper measuring 69.25 x 84 in. It is held at the Ferens Art Gallery in Kingston upon Hull, England. The gallery purchased the painting from Draper in 1910 for £600. Draper also painted a reduced replica that is housed at the Leeds Art Gallery. The subject of the painting is an episode in the epic poem Odyssey by Homer in which Ulysses is tormented by the voices of Sirens, although there are only two Sirens in Homer's poem and they stay in a meadow. The painting depicts Ulysses tied to the mast and forcibly attendant to the Sirens' seductions. Although the Sirens were depicted in ancient Greek art as scary, ugly creatures, Draper maintains the spirit but not the content of the story by transferring the Sirens' seductiveness from their song to a visible form, depicting the Sirens as beautiful mermaids who invade Ulysses' ship. The Sirens are nude and their tails disappear as they board the ship. Draper's conflation of Sirens with mermaids and his sexualization of these figures are consistent with other artwork of the Victorian and Edwardian eras. Norwegian social theorist Jon Elster used the name of Draper's painting as the title for his 1979 book about rationality and precommitment..
Untitled #153. Author Name: Cindy Sherman. . . Untitled #153 is a photograph made by American visual artist Cindy Sherman in 1985. In 2010, a print was auctioned for $2.7 million, making it one of the most expensive photographs ever sold at that time.. Untitled #153 is a photograph made by American visual artist Cindy Sherman in 1985. In 2010, a print was auctioned for $2.7 million, making it one of the most expensive photographs ever sold at that time..
Upstart. Author Name: Clement Meadmore. . . Upstart is a public art work by Australian-American artist Clement Meadmore located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture is an abstract, twisting form made of weathering steel; it is installed on the lawn.. Upstart is a public art work by Australian-American artist Clement Meadmore located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture is an abstract, twisting form made of weathering steel; it is installed on the lawn..
Urban Light. Author Name: Chris Burden. . . Urban Light (2008) is a large-scale assemblage sculpture by Chris Burden located at the Wilshire Boulevard entrance to the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. The installation consists of 202 restored street lamps from the 1920s and 1930s. Most of them once lit the streets of Southern California.Sheila Klein's public installation of Los Angeles street lamps, Vermonica, proceeded Urban Light by 15 years.. Urban Light (2008) is a large-scale assemblage sculpture by Chris Burden located at the Wilshire Boulevard entrance to the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. The installation consists of 202 restored street lamps from the 1920s and 1930s. Most of them once lit the streets of Southern California. The cast iron street lamps are of 17 styles, which vary depending on the municipality that commissioned them. They range from about 20 to 30 feet (6 to 9 meters), are painted a uniform gray and placed, forest-like, in a near grid. The lights are solar powered and switched on at dusk. Writing in the Los Angeles Times, Susan Freudenheim described the restored lamps as displaying "elaborate floral and geometric patterns" at the base, with "fluted shafts and glass globes that cap them...meticulously cleaned, painted and refurbished to create an exuberant glow." Sheila Klein's public installation of Los Angeles street lamps, Vermonica, proceeded Urban Light by 15 years..
Valentine Rescuing Sylvia from Proteus. Author Name: William Holman Hunt. . . Valentine Rescuing Sylvia from Proteus is an 1851 oil painting by William Holman Hunt. It depicts a scene from William Shakespeare's The Two Gentlemen of Verona. The top left and right portions of the frame include excerpts from act V, scene IV of the play. From left to right, the characters are Julia, disguised as a page, Sylvia, Valentine, and Proteus, who is in love with Julia. Sylvia's father, the Duke of Milain, and a group of followers are present in the background.. Valentine Rescuing Sylvia from Proteus is an 1851 oil painting by William Holman Hunt. It depicts a scene from William Shakespeare's The Two Gentlemen of Verona. The top left and right portions of the frame include excerpts from act V, scene IV of the play. From left to right, the characters are Julia, disguised as a page, Sylvia, Valentine, and Proteus, who is in love with Julia. Sylvia's father, the Duke of Milain, and a group of followers are present in the background. The painting was on display at the Royal Academy in 1851, then was transferred to the Liverpool Academy in 1851. In 1887, the painting was bought by the Birmingham Museum and Art Gallery. As of 2014, the painting is still in their collection..
Vase of Flowers in a Window Niche. Author Name: Ambrosius Bosschaert. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Vase of Flowers in a Window Niche is a still life oil on canvas painting of flowers by Ambrosius Bosschaert the Elder. It was painted in 1620 and is now in the Mauritshuis in The Hague.. Vase of Flowers in a Window Niche is a still life oil on canvas painting of flowers by Ambrosius Bosschaert the Elder. It was painted in 1620 and is now in the Mauritshuis in The Hague..
Vattenfall i Småland. Author Name: Larson, Marcus. . . Vattenfall i Småland (English:Waterfall in Småland) is a 19th-century oil painting by Swedish painter Marcus Larson. Painted in 1856, it has been characterized as a typical example of the Düsseldorf school of painting.. Vattenfall i Småland (English:Waterfall in Småland) is a 19th-century oil painting by Swedish painter Marcus Larson. Painted in 1856, it has been characterized as a typical example of the Düsseldorf school of painting..
Venus Blindfolding Cupid. Author Name: Titian. . . Venus Blindfolding Cupid is a c.1565 painting by Titian, now in the Galleria Borghese in Rome.. Venus Blindfolding Cupid is a c.1565 painting by Titian, now in the Galleria Borghese in Rome..
Venus Consoling Love. Author Name: François Boucher. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Rococo. . Venus Consoling Love is a painting by François Boucher, from 1751.The painting depicts a mythological scene, where Venus, the goddess of Love, depicted as a young, charming and supple young woman is impersonating the French Rococo's beauty ideals. She is about to disarm Cupid, by taking away his arrows, that he uses when shooting at people to make them fall in love.. Venus Consoling Love is a painting by François Boucher, from 1751.The painting depicts a mythological scene, where Venus, the goddess of Love, depicted as a young, charming and supple young woman is impersonating the French Rococo's beauty ideals. She is about to disarm Cupid, by taking away his arrows, that he uses when shooting at people to make them fall in love. Venus sits beside the pond with doves, the goddess symbol. The white doves at her feet, her complexion, the pearls in her hair are just as luxurious like the silk draperies that were wrapped around her, but now are lying on the ground. Boucher painted the artwork with soft pastel tones using a dim silvery light. The painting was made with high technical skill. The principal charm of Rococo art is its sensuality and seductivity..
Veronica Veronese. Author Name: Dante Gabriel Rossetti. . . Veronica Veronese is an oil painting by Dante Gabriel Rossetti painted in 1872 with Alexa Wilding as the model. The painting was conceived as a companion to Lady Lilith. Rossetti sold the painting to one of his best clients, shipping magnate Frederick Richards Leyland. In 1923 it was acquired by the estate of Samuel Bancroft which donated it in 1935 to the Delaware Art Museum where it is now displayed.. Veronica Veronese is an oil painting by Dante Gabriel Rossetti painted in 1872 with Alexa Wilding as the model. The painting was conceived as a companion to Lady Lilith. Rossetti sold the painting to one of his best clients, shipping magnate Frederick Richards Leyland. In 1923 it was acquired by the estate of Samuel Bancroft which donated it in 1935 to the Delaware Art Museum where it is now displayed..
View of Arles, flowering orchards. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . View of Arles, Flowering Orchards is a painting by Vincent van Gogh, executed in spring 1889, one of several paintings he produced on the subject of Flowering Orchards (Van Gogh series) while living in Arles.. View of Arles, Flowering Orchards is a painting by Vincent van Gogh, executed in spring 1889, one of several paintings he produced on the subject of Flowering Orchards (Van Gogh series) while living in Arles..
View of Haarlem with Bleaching Fields. Author Name: Jacob van Ruisdael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_Golden_Age_painting. . View of Haarlem with Bleaching Fields (c. 1670–1675) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Kunsthaus Zürich.. View of Haarlem with Bleaching Fields (c. 1670–1675) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Kunsthaus Zürich. This painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1911, who wrote; "92. The Haarlem Bleaching-Grounds. In the left foreground is a marshy pool surrounded with trees. A road leads from it up a hill towards the right background. In the middle distance is part of the bleaching-grounds ; large pieces of linen are spread out near cottages, and many persons are at work. In the distance is the town of Haarlem, dominated by the church of St. Bavo. The sky is filled with great masses of cloud which overshadow almost the whole landscape ; stray sunbeams illumine part of the town and the bleaching-grounds. Signed in full in the left-hand bottom corner ; canvas, 25 1/2 inches by 22 inches. Exhibited at Diisseldorf, 1886, No. 288. Sale. Count Sierstorpff, Berlin, April 19, 1887, No. 67..
View of the Garden of the Villa Medici. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . View of the Garden of the Villa Medici is a small painting by Diego Velázquez of the garden at the Villa Medici in Rome, with some figures standing watching an unseen event, possibly the works behind the scaffolding in the middle of the building in the background. It is now in the Prado. There is some controversy as to its date, with some scholars believing it was made during the artist's first trip to Italy (1629-31) and others feeling its advanced technique must mean it belongs to his second trip (1649-51). There is another version with similar features and the same title, and the two are of similar size and vary little in their execution and manner of depicting the garden.. View of the Garden of the Villa Medici is a small painting by Diego Velázquez of the garden at the Villa Medici in Rome, with some figures standing watching an unseen event, possibly the works behind the scaffolding in the middle of the building in the background. It is now in the Prado. There is some controversy as to its date, with some scholars believing it was made during the artist's first trip to Italy (1629-31) and others feeling its advanced technique must mean it belongs to his second trip (1649-51). There is another version with similar features and the same title, and the two are of similar size and vary little in their execution and manner of depicting the garden. Landscape painting was rare in Spanish painting of this time, with most commissions being religious works or portraits, and so Velázquez was somewhat cut off from the mainstream of French and Italian landscape art as practised by Claude Lorrain or Poussin for example), making his use of an oil sketch rather than an easel-painted work unusual. Such a revolution put him 200 years ahead of the Impressionist painters in choosing landscape as a topic, then showing interest in light, nature and their interconnectedness, and finally in his pictorial technique (abandoning detail to stain rather than paint, with little touches of the brush better appreciated stood further back from the painting than too close to it). Velázquez thus showed that he was not only a good painter for his mastery of technique but also his innovation, ahead of its time and nationally and internationally revolutionising other painters' way of painting..
View of the World from 9th Avenue. Author Name: Saul Steinberg. . . View of the World from 9th Avenue (sometimes A Parochial New Yorker's View of the World, A New Yorker's View of the World or simply View of the World) is a 1976 illustration by Saul Steinberg that served as the cover of the March 29, 1976, edition of The New Yorker. The work presents the view from Manhattan of the rest of the world showing Manhattan as the center of the world.. View of the World from 9th Avenue (sometimes A Parochial New Yorker's View of the World, A New Yorker's View of the World or simply View of the World) is a 1976 illustration by Saul Steinberg that served as the cover of the March 29, 1976, edition of The New Yorker. The work presents the view from Manhattan of the rest of the world showing Manhattan as the center of the world. View of the World has been parodied by Ted Rall, Columbia Pictures, The New Yorker, The Economist and Mad Magazine, among others. The work has been imitated and printed without authorization in a variety of ways. The Columbia parody led to a ruling by the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York in Steinberg v. Columbia Pictures Industries, Inc. in favor of Steinberg because of copyright violations by Columbia Pictures. The work is regarded as one of the greatest magazine covers of recent generations and is studied by art students around the world..
Village Fête. Author Name: Claude Lorrain. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Village Fête (or in Fr. La Fête villageoise) is an oil-on-canvas by French artist of the Baroque Claude Lorrain (real name Claude Gellée), painted in 1639 and given to Louis XIV in 1693 together with its companion Seaport at Sunset, by landscape architect and gardener André Le Nôtre. It is currently held and exhibited at the Louvre in Paris.. Village Fête (or in Fr. La Fête villageoise) is an oil-on-canvas by French artist of the Baroque Claude Lorrain (real name Claude Gellée), painted in 1639 and given to Louis XIV in 1693 together with its companion Seaport at Sunset, by landscape architect and gardener André Le Nôtre. It is currently held and exhibited at the Louvre in Paris..
Vocation of the Apostles. Author Name: Domenico Ghirlandaio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Vocation of the Apostles is a fresco by the Italian Renaissance painter Domenico Ghirlandaio, executed in 1481–1482 and located in the Sistine Chapel, Rome.. The Vocation of the Apostles is a fresco by the Italian Renaissance painter Domenico Ghirlandaio, executed in 1481–1482 and located in the Sistine Chapel, Rome.. 
War. Author Name: Paula Rego. . . War is a painting created by Portuguese-British visual artist Paula Rego in 2003.. War is a painting created by Portuguese-British visual artist Paula Rego in 2003.. 
Water Willow. Author Name: Dante Gabriel Rossetti. . . Water Willow is an 1871 oil painting by Dante Gabriel Rossetti. It depicts Jane Morris in the river landscape near Kelmscott Manor, with the manor in the left background and Kelmscott Church below the hill to the right.. Water Willow is an 1871 oil painting by Dante Gabriel Rossetti. It depicts Jane Morris in the river landscape near Kelmscott Manor, with the manor in the left background and Kelmscott Church below the hill to the right.. 
The Westoe Netty. Author Name: Olley, Robert. . . The Westoe Netty is a painting by Robert Olley. It depicts a historical scene inside a public toilet (Netty is a Geordie dialect word for toilet). Painted in 1972, it has become a cultural symbol of North East England working class history.Unfortunately by 2010 the authenticity of the rebuilt North Eastern icon became a victim of its own success as its visitors thought it was for public use so a decision to retire it into temporary storage until funds allowed the Westoe Netty to be relocated, reconstructed and plumbed in as a working urinal.. The Westoe Netty is a painting by Robert Olley. It depicts a historical scene inside a public toilet (Netty is a Geordie dialect word for toilet). Painted in 1972, it has become a cultural symbol of North East England working class history. Olley was a former miner turned local artist, and his painting was inspired by a real toilet that was formerly sited in Westoe, South Shields. His painting depicted six working class men and a little boy using the netty, which was used by workers travelling to the nearby Westoe Colliery. The painting portrays the wall of the netty covered in humorous and often vulgar graffiti, reflecting many local phrases and cultural references. The original toilet was built in 1890. When the area it was sited in was earmarked for regeneration, the toilet was saved from demolition by friends of the artist, who dismantled it and put into storage in 1996 in a local shipyard. In 2008 the toilet was rebuilt as a permanent exhibit at the Beamish Museum, County Durham, and opened on 25 July 2008 with a recreation of the picture's scene staged for the media. Unfortunately by 2010 the authenticity of the rebuilt North Eastern icon became a victim of its own success as its visitors thought it was for public use so a decision to retire it into temporary storage until funds allowed the Westoe Netty to be relocated, reconstructed and plumbed in as a working urinal.. 
Landscape with Wheat Sheaves and Rising Moon. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . The Wheat Fields is a series of dozens of paintings by Vincent van Gogh, borne out of his religious studies and sermons, connection to nature, appreciation of manual laborers and desire to provide a means of offering comfort to others. The wheat field works demonstrate his progression as an artist from the drab Wheat Sheaves made in 1885 in the Netherlands to the colorful, dramatic paintings from Arles, Saint-Rémy and Auvers-sur-Oise of rural France.. The Wheat Fields is a series of dozens of paintings by Vincent van Gogh, borne out of his religious studies and sermons, connection to nature, appreciation of manual laborers and desire to provide a means of offering comfort to others. The wheat field works demonstrate his progression as an artist from the drab Wheat Sheaves made in 1885 in the Netherlands to the colorful, dramatic paintings from Arles, Saint-Rémy and Auvers-sur-Oise of rural France.. 
White Crucifixion. Author Name: Marc Chagall. . Author Movement: *. . The White Crucifixion is a painting by Marc Chagall. It was painted in 1938 after Chagall had visited Europe, and can be viewed at the Art Institute of Chicago.. The White Crucifixion is a painting by Marc Chagall. It was painted in 1938 after Chagall had visited Europe, and can be viewed at the Art Institute of Chicago.. 
White shift dress of Jean Shrimpton. Author Name: Jean Shrimpton. . . On 1965 Derby Day at Flemington Racecourse in Melbourne, Australia, English model Jean Shrimpton wore a white minidress that sparked controversy and was later described as a pivotal moment in women's fashion. The dress was made by Shrimpton's dressmaker, Colin Rolfe, and its hem was a daring 4 in (10 cm) above the knee because he had not been supplied with enough fabric to complete his and Shrimpton's intended design.. On 1965 Derby Day at Flemington Racecourse in Melbourne, Australia, English model Jean Shrimpton wore a white minidress that sparked controversy and was later described as a pivotal moment in women's fashion. The dress was made by Shrimpton's dressmaker, Colin Rolfe, and its hem was a daring 4 in (10 cm) above the knee because he had not been supplied with enough fabric to complete his and Shrimpton's intended design.. 
Wind Wand. Author Name: Len Lye. . . The Wind Wand is a 48-metre kinetic sculpture located in New Plymouth, New Zealand. The sculpture includes a 45-metre tube of red fibreglass, and was made to designs by artist Len Lye. To residents, it is one of the main icons of New Plymouth. Originally installed in December 1999 along with the Coastal Walkway, it had to be taken down within weeks. After repairs it was reinstalled in June 2001. The red fibreglass tube stands vertical in still air, but bends in the wind. The globe at its tip glows red at night. Due to its resemblance to a Snoo antenna, the Wind Wand has led to the unofficial re-naming of New Zealand to "Snoo Zealand".. The Wind Wand is a 48-metre kinetic sculpture located in New Plymouth, New Zealand. The sculpture includes a 45-metre tube of red fibreglass, and was made to designs by artist Len Lye. To residents, it is one of the main icons of New Plymouth. Originally installed in December 1999 along with the Coastal Walkway, it had to be taken down within weeks. After repairs it was reinstalled in June 2001. The red fibreglass tube stands vertical in still air, but bends in the wind. The globe at its tip glows red at night. Due to its resemblance to a Snoo antenna, the Wind Wand has led to the unofficial re-naming of New Zealand to "Snoo Zealand".. 
Woman in a Purple Coat. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . Woman In A Purple Coat or The Purple Coat is a painting by Henri Matisse from 1937. It depicts Matisse's assistant Lydia Delectorskaya. This painting is an example of Henri Matisse's mature decorative style. Matisse depicts his model and companion of many years, Lydia Delectorskaya, in an exotic Moroccan costume, surrounded by a complex of abstract design and exotic color. This is an example of one of the final groups of oil paintings in Matisse's career, in 1950 he stopped painting oil paintings in favor of creating paper cutouts.. Woman In A Purple Coat or The Purple Coat is a painting by Henri Matisse from 1937. It depicts Matisse's assistant Lydia Delectorskaya. This painting is an example of Henri Matisse's mature decorative style. Matisse depicts his model and companion of many years, Lydia Delectorskaya, in an exotic Moroccan costume, surrounded by a complex of abstract design and exotic color. This is an example of one of the final groups of oil paintings in Matisse's career, in 1950 he stopped painting oil paintings in favor of creating paper cutouts.. 
La Femme au perroquet. Author Name: Gustave Courbet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . La Femme au perroquet (Woman with a Parrot) is an oil painting on canvas by French artist Gustave Courbet. It was the first nude by the artist to be accepted by the Paris Salon in 1866 after a previous entry in 1864 was rejected as indecent.. La Femme au perroquet (Woman with a Parrot) is an oil painting on canvas by French artist Gustave Courbet. It was the first nude by the artist to be accepted by the Paris Salon in 1866 after a previous entry in 1864 was rejected as indecent.. 
Woman with a Pearl Necklace. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . Woman with a Pearl Necklace by Johannes Vermeer is a seventeenth-century Northern European painting. Painted in oils on canvas, Johannes Vermeer portrayed a young Dutch woman, most likely of upper-class-descent, dressing herself with two yellow ribbons, pearl earrings, and a pearl necklace. As a very popular artist of the 17th century, the Dutch Golden Age, Vermeer depicted many women in similar circumstances within interior, domestic scenes. The same woman also appears in The Love Letter and A Lady Writing a Letter.. Woman with a Pearl Necklace by Johannes Vermeer is a seventeenth-century Northern European painting. Painted in oils on canvas, Johannes Vermeer portrayed a young Dutch woman, most likely of upper-class-descent, dressing herself with two yellow ribbons, pearl earrings, and a pearl necklace. As a very popular artist of the 17th century, the Dutch Golden Age, Vermeer depicted many women in similar circumstances within interior, domestic scenes. The same woman also appears in The Love Letter and A Lady Writing a Letter.. 
Woman with a Water Jug. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . Woman with a Water Jug, also known as Young Woman with a Water Pitcher, is a painting finished between 1660–1662 by the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer in the Baroque style. It is oil on canvas, 45.7cm x 40.6 cm, and is on display at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York.. Woman with a Water Jug, also known as Young Woman with a Water Pitcher, is a painting finished between 1660–1662 by the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer in the Baroque style. It is oil on canvas, 45.7cm x 40.6 cm, and is on display at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York.. 
Work. Author Name: Ford Madox Brown. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pre-Raphaelite_Brotherhood. . Work (1852–1865) is a painting by Ford Madox Brown that is generally considered to be his most important achievement. It exists in two versions. The painting attempts to portray, both literally and analytically, the totality of the Victorian social system and the transition from a rural to an urban economy. Brown began the painting in 1852 and completed it in 1865, when he set up a special exhibition to showcase it along with several of his other works. He wrote a detailed catalogue explaining the significance of the picture.. Work (1852–1865) is a painting by Ford Madox Brown that is generally considered to be his most important achievement. It exists in two versions. The painting attempts to portray, both literally and analytically, the totality of the Victorian social system and the transition from a rural to an urban economy. Brown began the painting in 1852 and completed it in 1865, when he set up a special exhibition to showcase it along with several of his other works. He wrote a detailed catalogue explaining the significance of the picture. The painting was commissioned by Thomas Plint, a well-known collector of Pre-Raphaelite art, who died before its completion. A second version, smaller at 684 x 990 mm, was commissioned in 1859 and completed in 1863. This is now in the Birmingham Museum and Art Gallery. It is closely similar, though for the lady with a blue parasol the face of Maria Leathart, the commissioner's wife, replaces that of Mrs Brown in the Manchester version. The picture depicts a group of so-called "navvies" digging up the road to build an underground tunnel. It is typically assumed that this was part of the extensions of London's sewerage system, which were being undertaken to deal with the threat of typhus and cholera. The workers are in the centre of the painting. On either side of them are individuals who are either unemployed or represent the leisured classes. Behind the workers are two wealthy figures on horseback, whose progress along the road has been halted by the excavations. The painting also portrays an election campaign, evidenced by posters and people carrying sandwich boards with the name of the candidate "Bobus". A poster also draws attention to the potential presence of a burglar. The setting is an accurate depiction of The Mount on Heath Street in Hampstead, London, where a side road rises up above the main road and runs alongside it. Brown made a detailed study of the location in 1852.. 
Yellow and Green Brushstrokes. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Yellow and Green Brushstrokes is a 1966 oil and Magna on canvas pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It is part of the Brushstrokes series of artworks that includes several paintings and sculptures. It is located at the Museum für Moderne Kunst in Frankfurt, Germany. As with all of his Brushstrokes works, it is in part a satirical response to the gestural painting of Abstract Expressionism.. Yellow and Green Brushstrokes is a 1966 oil and Magna on canvas pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It is part of the Brushstrokes series of artworks that includes several paintings and sculptures. It is located at the Museum für Moderne Kunst in Frankfurt, Germany. As with all of his Brushstrokes works, it is in part a satirical response to the gestural painting of Abstract Expressionism.. 
Young Knight in a Landscape. Author Name: Vittore Carpaccio. . . Young Knight in a Landscape, or Portrait of a Knight, is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Vittore Carpaccio, now in the Thyssen-Bornemisza Collection in Madrid. Dated 1510, this is the earliest full-length portrait in Western painting - on the assumption that it is a portrait, as seems likely. It is characteristic of Carpaccio that apart from this important innovation, the style of the work seems in other respects to look back to the previous century. From some date until the 20th century the painting had been given the monogram of Albrecht Dürer, and Carpaccio's signature overpainted. The realism and detail of Carpaccio does in fact show Northern influence.. Young Knight in a Landscape, or Portrait of a Knight, is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Vittore Carpaccio, now in the Thyssen-Bornemisza Collection in Madrid. Dated 1510, this is the earliest full-length portrait in Western painting - on the assumption that it is a portrait, as seems likely. It is characteristic of Carpaccio that apart from this important innovation, the style of the work seems in other respects to look back to the previous century. From some date until the 20th century the painting had been given the monogram of Albrecht Dürer, and Carpaccio's signature overpainted. The realism and detail of Carpaccio does in fact show Northern influence. For centuries the identity of the knight has been a subject of discussion among the most renowned art historians, including Bernard Berenson and Lionello Venturi. The portrait is now considered most likely to show Francesco Maria I della Rovere, the Duke of Urbino and nephew of Pope Julius II, during whose reign it was painted. Nevertheless, a more recent interpretation identifies the knight as the Venetian patrician Marco Gabriel, who was rector of the fortress of Methoni, in Greece, during the Ottoman siege of 1500. His family would have commissioned the painting as a tribute to his memory, as, being the only Venetian survivor of the siege, he had been accused of cowardice. Taken by the Ottomans to Constantinople, he was beheaded there on 4 November 1501. The painting shows a young knight, surrounded by a rather crowded series of symbols. The heron caught in the sky by a hawk might hint at this knight's death in battle, also alluded to by his posture, which recalls that of a funerary statue; an alternative theory is that this is a memorial portrait of a person already dead. The other knight with a lance might then be the same person during his life. In the left lower corner is a white ermine and a scroll stating "I prefer to die rather than to incur dishonour" (malo mori quam foedari). The symbolism of these and the other animals and plants have been much discussed by art historians. The painting was sold by the heirs of the American collector Otto Kahn after his death and bought by Heinrich Thyssen in 1935.. 
Zawieszenie dzwonu Zygmunta. Author Name: Jan Matejko. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/History_painting. . Zawieszenie dzwonu Zygmunta (Polish: Zawieszenie dzwonu Zygmunta na wieży katedry w roku 1521 w Krakowie, English: The Hanging of the Sigismund bell at the Cathedral Tower in 1521 in Kraków) is a painting by Jan Matejko finished in 1874. It depicts the installation of the Sigismund Bell in the Wawel Cathedral in Kraków in 1521. The bell was installed in the Sigismund Tower and rung for the first time on 13 July 1521. The bell is considered to be one of the national symbols of Poland. This painting is one of a number of historical paintings by Matejko. It shows a crowd of people, with a number of identifiable figures of historical importance. It conveys the Golden Era of the Polish Renaissance, and the power of the Kingdom of Poland.. Zawieszenie dzwonu Zygmunta (Polish: Zawieszenie dzwonu Zygmunta na wieży katedry w roku 1521 w Krakowie, English: The Hanging of the Sigismund bell at the Cathedral Tower in 1521 in Kraków) is a painting by Jan Matejko finished in 1874. It depicts the installation of the Sigismund Bell in the Wawel Cathedral in Kraków in 1521. The bell was installed in the Sigismund Tower and rung for the first time on 13 July 1521. The bell is considered to be one of the national symbols of Poland. This painting is one of a number of historical paintings by Matejko. It shows a crowd of people, with a number of identifiable figures of historical importance. It conveys the Golden Era of the Polish Renaissance, and the power of the Kingdom of Poland. There are several alternative names for the painting. They include The consecrating of the Sigismund bell... (Poświęcenie dzwonu Zygmunta...), as proposed by Mieczysław Treter, The raising of the Sigismund bell..., King Sigismund's Bell, or just Sigismund Bell (Dzwon Zygmunta).. 
Zephyrometer. Author Name: Price, Phil. . . The Zephyrometer is a civic sculpture by Evans Bay, Wellington. It was made by Christchurch artist Phil Price and installed in 2003. It is a kinetic sculpture consisting of a concrete cylinder holding a 26m tall needle which sways to show wind direction and speed (Wellington is known to Kiwis as "Windy Wellington"). The needle consists of fiberglass exterior around a wooden framework. After being damaged by lightning on August 14, 2014, it was restored on May 13, 2015.. The Zephyrometer is a civic sculpture by Evans Bay, Wellington. It was made by Christchurch artist Phil Price and installed in 2003. It is a kinetic sculpture consisting of a concrete cylinder holding a 26m tall needle which sways to show wind direction and speed (Wellington is known to Kiwis as "Windy Wellington"). The needle consists of fiberglass exterior around a wooden framework. After being damaged by lightning on August 14, 2014, it was restored on May 13, 2015. Zephyrometer was the second of five major wind sculptures commissioned by the Wellington Sculpture Trust over the period 2000 – 2010, which now make up the Meridian Wind Sculpture Walk. This is beside the main route from Wellington International Airport to the central city. Each sculpture shows a creative and different response to the wind by, in the order listed below, bending, pivoting, creating light, spinning and making sound – although some do more than one of these. The five sculptures are Pacific Grass by Konstantin Dimopoulos, Zephyrometer by Phil Price, Tower of Light by Andrew Drummond, Wellington Urban Forestry by Leon van den Eijkle, and Akau Tangi (roughly The Sighing Sound of the Wind) by Phil Dadson..