The Burial of the Count of Orgaz. Author Name: El Greco. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . The Burial of the Count of Orgaz is a painting by El Greco, a painter, sculptor, and architect of the Spanish Renaissance. Widely considered among his finest works, it illustrates a popular local legend of his time. An exceptionally large painting, it is very clearly divided into two sections, heavenly above and terrestrial below, but it gives little impression of duality. The upper and lower sections are brought together compositionally.. The Burial of the Count of Orgaz is a painting by El Greco, a painter, sculptor, and architect of the Spanish Renaissance. Widely considered among his finest works, it illustrates a popular local legend of his time. An exceptionally large painting, it is very clearly divided into two sections, heavenly above and terrestrial below, but it gives little impression of duality. The upper and lower sections are brought together compositionally.. 
A Burial At Ornans. Author Name: Gustave Courbet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . A Burial At Ornans (French: Un enterrement à Ornans, also known as A Funeral At Ornans) is a painting of 1849–50 by Gustave Courbet, and one of the major turning points of 19th-century French art. The painting records the funeral in September 1848 of his great-uncle in the painter's birthplace, the small town of Ornans. It treats an ordinary provincial funeral with unflattering realism, and on the giant scale traditionally reserved for the heroic or religious scenes of history painting. Its exhibition at the 1850–51 Paris Salon created an "explosive reaction" and brought Courbet instant fame. It is currently displayed at the Musée d'Orsay in Paris, France.. A Burial At Ornans (French: Un enterrement à Ornans, also known as A Funeral At Ornans) is a painting of 1849–50 by Gustave Courbet, and one of the major turning points of 19th-century French art. The painting records the funeral in September 1848 of his great-uncle in the painter's birthplace, the small town of Ornans. It treats an ordinary provincial funeral with unflattering realism, and on the giant scale traditionally reserved for the heroic or religious scenes of history painting. Its exhibition at the 1850–51 Paris Salon created an "explosive reaction" and brought Courbet instant fame. It is currently displayed at the Musée d'Orsay in Paris, France. The Salon found Courbet triumphant with The Stone Breakers, the Peasants of Flagey, and A Burial at Ornans. People who had attended the funeral were used as models for the painting. Previously, models had been used as actors in historical narratives; here Courbet said that he "painted the very people who had been present at the interment, all the townspeople". The result is a realistic presentation of them, and of life, in Ornans. The painting, which drew both praise and fierce denunciations from critics and the public, is an enormous work, measuring 10 by 22 feet (3.1 by 6.6 metres), depicting a prosaic ritual on a scale which previously would have been reserved for a work of history painting. According to art historian Sarah Faunce, "In Paris the Burial was judged as a work that had thrust itself into the grand tradition of history painting, like an upstart in dirty boots crashing a genteel party, and in terms of that tradition it was of course found wanting." Then too, the painting lacks the sentimental rhetoric that was expected in a genre work: Courbet's mourners make no theatrical gestures of grief, and their faces seem more caricatured than ennobled. The critics accused Courbet of a deliberate pursuit of ugliness. Eventually the public grew more interested in the new Realist approach, and the lavish, decadent fantasy of Romanticism lost popularity. The artist well understood the importance of this painting; Courbet said: "The Burial at Ornans was in reality the burial of Romanticism." It might also be said to be the burial of the hierarchy of genres which had dominated French art since the 17th century. In 1873, when Courbet's political views had changed, he repudiated the work saying that it was "worth nothing".. 
Untitled 1986. Author Name: Buckley, John. . . The Headington Shark (proper name Untitled 1986) is a rooftop sculpture at 2 New High Street, Headington, Oxford, England, depicting an oversized shark embedded head-first in the roof of a house.. The Headington Shark (proper name Untitled 1986) is a rooftop sculpture at 2 New High Street, Headington, Oxford, England, depicting an oversized shark embedded head-first in the roof of a house.. 
The Family. Author Name: Chaim Gross. . . The Family is an outdoor bronze sculpture by American artist and educator Chaim Gross, installed at the Bleecker Playground in Manhattan, New York City.. The Family is an outdoor bronze sculpture by American artist and educator Chaim Gross, installed at the Bleecker Playground in Manhattan, New York City.. 
Woman Reading a Letter. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . Woman Reading a Letter (Dutch: Brieflezende vrouw) is a painting by the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer. Part of the collection of the Rijksmuseum Amsterdam since 1885, it was the first Vermeer acquired by the museum.. Woman Reading a Letter (Dutch: Brieflezende vrouw) is a painting by the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer. Part of the collection of the Rijksmuseum Amsterdam since 1885, it was the first Vermeer acquired by the museum.. 
Wheat Field with a Lark. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . In 1887, while Vincent van Gogh was residing in Paris, he executed an oil painting commonly known as Wheat Field with a Lark.The center part shows a partially harvested field of wheat under a sky patterned with light clouds. A lark takes flight toward the upper left of the canvas.The painting measures 54 x 65.5 cm (approximately 21-1/4 x 25-3/4 inches) and is housed in the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam.. In 1887, while Vincent van Gogh was residing in Paris, he executed an oil painting commonly known as Wheat Field with a Lark. The center part shows a partially harvested field of wheat under a sky patterned with light clouds. A lark takes flight toward the upper left of the canvas. The painting measures 54 x 65.5 cm (approximately 21-1/4 x 25-3/4 inches) and is housed in the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam.. 
Madonna and Child with St John and Angels. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Madonna and Child with St John and Angels (c. 1497), also known as The Manchester Madonna, is an unfinished painting attributed to Michelangelo in the National Gallery, London. It is one of three surviving panel paintings attributed to the artist and is dated to his first period in Rome. The painting's attribution to Michelangelo was in doubt for much of the 19th and 20th centuries, but now most scholars are in agreement. The work first came to public attention in the Art Treasures Exhibition in Manchester in 1857, hence the title the “Manchester Madonna”.. The Madonna and Child with St John and Angels (c. 1497), also known as The Manchester Madonna, is an unfinished painting attributed to Michelangelo in the National Gallery, London. It is one of three surviving panel paintings attributed to the artist and is dated to his first period in Rome. The painting's attribution to Michelangelo was in doubt for much of the 19th and 20th centuries, but now most scholars are in agreement. The work first came to public attention in the Art Treasures Exhibition in Manchester in 1857, hence the title the “Manchester Madonna”. Like other Renaissance paintings of the Madonna and Child which include John the Baptist, the subject arises from a non-Biblical tradition that Virgin Mary and the Child Jesus met Christ's cousin St John the Baptist, on the Holy Family's Flight into Egypt. The Virgin is depicted with one breast bared, as if she has recently been suckling her infant son; this recalls the theme of the Virgin breastfeeding common in medieval painting. In her hands is a book which she attempts to hold away from her son, the contents of which probably foretell his future sacrifice. She looks over her left shoulder onto a scroll being read by a pair of angels; this is likely to be the scroll reading Ecce Agnus Dei ('Behold the Lamb of God'), usually an attribute of John the Baptist. The figures are arranged as if in a frieze, revealing Michelangelo's sculptor's mindset. The frieze becomes more convex at its centre with the figures of Virgin and Child, as in the later Pitti Tondo. Another similarity to relief sculpture is in the plain background: rather than the landscapes more common for exterior settings, Michelangelo has simply painted an expanse of sky. He also eschewed the richly-decorated throne typical of sacra conversazione altarpieces, and de-emphasised the angels' wings. Many areas of the painting are in a preliminary state; the black of the Virgin's robe was meant to be overpainted with the rich blue pigment lapis lazuli, and the angels on the left are indicated only by the green underpaint used for flesh tones.. 
Madonna and Child Between St. Francis and St. Nicasius. Author Name: Giorgione. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Madonna and Child Between St. Francis and St. Nicasius, also known as Castelfranco Madonna, is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Giorgione executed around 1503. It is housed in the Cathedral of Castelfranco Veneto, Giorgione's native city, in Veneto, northern Italy.. The Madonna and Child Between St. Francis and St. Nicasius, also known as Castelfranco Madonna, is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Giorgione executed around 1503. It is housed in the Cathedral of Castelfranco Veneto, Giorgione's native city, in Veneto, northern Italy.. 
The Hunt in the Forest. Author Name: Paolo Uccello. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Hunt in the Forest (also known as The Hunt by Night or simply The Hunt) is a painting by the Italian artist Paolo Uccello, made around 1470. It is perhaps the best-known painting in the Ashmolean Museum, Oxford, England.The painting is an early example of the effective use of perspective in Renaissance art, with the hunt participants, including people, horses, dogs and deer, disappearing into the dark forest in the distance. It was Uccello's last known painting before his death in 1475.. The Hunt in the Forest (also known as The Hunt by Night or simply The Hunt) is a painting by the Italian artist Paolo Uccello, made around 1470. It is perhaps the best-known painting in the Ashmolean Museum, Oxford, England. The painting is an early example of the effective use of perspective in Renaissance art, with the hunt participants, including people, horses, dogs and deer, disappearing into the dark forest in the distance. It was Uccello's last known painting before his death in 1475.. 
The Last Judgement. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . The Last Judgment is a triptych created by Hieronymus Bosch. Unlike the other two triptychs with the same name, in Vienna and in Bruges, only a fragment of this one exists today. It resides at the Alte Pinakothek in Munich.After being damaged, this fragment was heavily repainted, then the paint was removed in 1936.. The Last Judgment is a triptych created by Hieronymus Bosch. Unlike the other two triptychs with the same name, in Vienna and in Bruges, only a fragment of this one exists today. It resides at the Alte Pinakothek in Munich. After being damaged, this fragment was heavily repainted, then the paint was removed in 1936.. 
Ma Jolie. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Ma Jolie is an oil painting by Spanish artist Pablo Picasso, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, in Indianapolis, Indiana, USA. Completed in 1914, its fractured depiction of everyday objects is an early example of cubism. It is not to be confused with the 1912 Picasso of the same name, now in the Museum of Modern Art in New York.. Ma Jolie is an oil painting by Spanish artist Pablo Picasso, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, in Indianapolis, Indiana, USA. Completed in 1914, its fractured depiction of everyday objects is an early example of cubism. It is not to be confused with the 1912 Picasso of the same name, now in the Museum of Modern Art in New York.. 
Self-Portrait in a Circle of Friends from Mantua. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Self-portrait in a circle of friends from Mantua is an oil on canvas by Peter Paul Rubens, produced between 1602 and 1604. It measures 77.5 cm by 161 cm. It is now in the Wallraf-Richartz Museum in Cologne. From left to right it shows Frans Pourbus, Caspar Schoppe, William Richardot, the painter's brother Philip or Filippo Rubens, Rubens himself, and Justus Lipsius.. Self-portrait in a circle of friends from Mantua is an oil on canvas by Peter Paul Rubens, produced between 1602 and 1604. It measures 77.5 cm by 161 cm. It is now in the Wallraf-Richartz Museum in Cologne. From left to right it shows Frans Pourbus, Caspar Schoppe, William Richardot, the painter's brother Philip or Filippo Rubens, Rubens himself, and Justus Lipsius.. 
The Human Condition. Author Name: René Magritte. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Surrealism. . The Human Condition (La condition humaine) generally refers to two similar oil on canvas paintings by the Belgian surrealist René Magritte. One was completed in 1933 and is in the collection of the National Gallery of Art in Washington DC. The other was completed in 1935 and is part of the Simon Spierer Collection in Geneva, Switzerland. A number of drawings of the same name exist as well, including one at the Cleveland Museum of Art.. The Human Condition (La condition humaine) generally refers to two similar oil on canvas paintings by the Belgian surrealist René Magritte. One was completed in 1933 and is in the collection of the National Gallery of Art in Washington DC. The other was completed in 1935 and is part of the Simon Spierer Collection in Geneva, Switzerland. A number of drawings of the same name exist as well, including one at the Cleveland Museum of Art.. 
Die Humpty-Dumpty-Maschine. Author Name: Jonathan Meese. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Contemporary_art. . Die Humpty-Dumpty-Maschine der totalen Zukunft is an outdoor 2010 sculpture by Jonathan Meese, installed at the Alte Nationalgalerie in Berlin, Germany.. Die Humpty-Dumpty-Maschine der totalen Zukunft is an outdoor 2010 sculpture by Jonathan Meese, installed at the Alte Nationalgalerie in Berlin, Germany.. 
Three Graces. Author Name: Heinz Mack. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Zero_(art). . Three Graces is a public art work by artist Heinz Mack located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The three pillars are named Thalia, Aglaia and Euphrosyne; they are attached to a base and installed on the lawn.. Three Graces is a public art work by artist Heinz Mack located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The three pillars are named Thalia, Aglaia and Euphrosyne; they are attached to a base and installed on the lawn.. 
Portrait of Jan Six. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Portrait of Jan Six is a 1654 painting by the Dutch painter Rembrandt van Rijn. Having been handed down many generations, via the direct descendants of the portrait's subject, the work currently resides in the Six Collection in Amsterdam.. Portrait of Jan Six is a 1654 painting by the Dutch painter Rembrandt van Rijn. Having been handed down many generations, via the direct descendants of the portrait's subject, the work currently resides in the Six Collection in Amsterdam.. 
The Conversion of Mary Magdalene. Author Name: Paolo Veronese. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Conversion of Mary Magdalene is an oil painting, an early work by the Italian Renaissance artist based in Venice, Paolo Veronese (1528–1588). He was known for his sumptuous paintings with a dramatic and colourful style. Dating from circa 1545–1548, the painting was commissioned by a noble patron in Verona.. The Conversion of Mary Magdalene is an oil painting, an early work by the Italian Renaissance artist based in Venice, Paolo Veronese (1528–1588). He was known for his sumptuous paintings with a dramatic and colourful style. Dating from circa 1545–1548, the painting was commissioned by a noble patron in Verona.. 
Blam. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Blam (sometimes Blam!) is a 1962 painting by Roy Lichtenstein described by critics as pop art. It is one of his military comic book derivatives and was one of the works presented at his first solo exhibition. The work is held in the collection at the Yale University Art Gallery.. Blam (sometimes Blam!) is a 1962 painting by Roy Lichtenstein described by critics as pop art. It is one of his military comic book derivatives and was one of the works presented at his first solo exhibition. The work is held in the collection at the Yale University Art Gallery.. 
The Lovers. Author Name: Daen, Lindsay. . . The Lovers is a public art work by artist Lindsay Daen located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture depicts two elongated figures walking hand in hand; it is installed on the lawn.. The Lovers is a public art work by artist Lindsay Daen located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture depicts two elongated figures walking hand in hand; it is installed on the lawn.. 
St. Mark. Author Name: Donatello. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . Donatello's Saint Mark (1411–1413) is a marble statue that stands approximately seven feet and nine inches high in an exterior niche of the Orsanmichele church, Florence. Donatello was commissioned by the linen weavers' guild to complete three pieces for the project. St. Mark was the first of his contributions. The niche itself was not of Donatello's hand, but created most probably by two stone carvers named Perfetto di Giovanni and Albizzo di Pietro. Today, a copy of the statue stands in the original's place, while the real St. Mark is housed inside the church's museum.. Donatello's Saint Mark (1411–1413) is a marble statue that stands approximately seven feet and nine inches high in an exterior niche of the Orsanmichele church, Florence. Donatello was commissioned by the linen weavers' guild to complete three pieces for the project. St. Mark was the first of his contributions. The niche itself was not of Donatello's hand, but created most probably by two stone carvers named Perfetto di Giovanni and Albizzo di Pietro. Today, a copy of the statue stands in the original's place, while the real St. Mark is housed inside the church's museum.. 
The Dancing Class. Author Name: Edgar Degas. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Dancing Class is an oil painting by Edgar Degas. It was painted about 1870. It was the first of Degas's "ballet pictures". The painting depicts a dancing class at the Paris Opéra. The dancer in the center is Joséphine Gaujelin (or Gozelin).. The Dancing Class is an oil painting by Edgar Degas. It was painted about 1870. It was the first of Degas's "ballet pictures". The painting depicts a dancing class at the Paris Opéra. The dancer in the center is Joséphine Gaujelin (or Gozelin).. 
Cala Forn. Author Name: Sunyer, Joaquim. . . Cala Forn is a painting by Joaquim Sunyer currently exhibited at the National Art Museum of Catalonia.. Cala Forn is a painting by Joaquim Sunyer currently exhibited at the National Art Museum of Catalonia.. 
Massacre of the Innocents. Author Name: Guido Reni. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Massacre of the Innocents is a painting by the Italian Baroque painter Guido Reni, created in 1611 for the Basilica of San Domenico in Bologna, but now in the Pinacoteca Nazionale in that same city.. Massacre of the Innocents is a painting by the Italian Baroque painter Guido Reni, created in 1611 for the Basilica of San Domenico in Bologna, but now in the Pinacoteca Nazionale in that same city.. 
Le Moulin de la Galette. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Le Moulin de la Galette is the subject and title of several paintings made by Vincent van Gogh in 1886 of a windmill. The Moulin de la Galette was near Van Gogh's apartment with his brother, Theo in Montmartre. The owners of the windmill maximized the view on a butte overlooking Paris, creating a terrace for viewing and a dance hall for entertainment. The windmill paintings are a subset of paintings from Montmartre (Van Gogh series).. Le Moulin de la Galette is the subject and title of several paintings made by Vincent van Gogh in 1886 of a windmill. The Moulin de la Galette was near Van Gogh's apartment with his brother, Theo in Montmartre. The owners of the windmill maximized the view on a butte overlooking Paris, creating a terrace for viewing and a dance hall for entertainment. The windmill paintings are a subset of paintings from Montmartre (Van Gogh series).. 
Clearing After Rain in Mt.Inwangsan or After Rain at Mt. Inwang. Author Name: Jeong Seon. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Landscape_painting. . Inwangjesaekdo ("Clearing After Rain in Mt. Inwangsan" or "After Rain at Mt. Inwang") is a landscape painting by the famous Jeong Seon who painted it during the reign of Joseon Dynasty King Yeongjo in 1751, at his birthplace in Cheongun-dong at Jongno District, modern-day Seoul. It is the 216th National Treasure of Korea and was designated by the South Korean government on August 6, 1984. The painting is currently held and managed by the Ho-Am Art Museum in Yongin, Gyeonggi Province and is owned by Yi Geonhui.. Inwangjesaekdo ("Clearing After Rain in Mt. Inwangsan" or "After Rain at Mt. Inwang") is a landscape painting by the famous Jeong Seon who painted it during the reign of Joseon Dynasty King Yeongjo in 1751, at his birthplace in Cheongun-dong at Jongno District, modern-day Seoul. It is the 216th National Treasure of Korea and was designated by the South Korean government on August 6, 1984. The painting is currently held and managed by the Ho-Am Art Museum in Yongin, Gyeonggi Province and is owned by Yi Geonhui.. 
Adoration of the Magi. Author Name: Pietro Perugino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Adoration of the Magi is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Pietro Perugino, housed in the Galleria Nazionale dell'Umbria of Perugia, Italy.According to Italian art historian Vittoria Garibaldi, it was one of the earliest commissions received by Perugino around the end of his apprenticeship in Florence (1472), while others date it to the late 1470s. The painting was originally executed for the church of Santa Maria dei Servi in Perugia, connected to the Baglioni family; in 1543 it was moved to the church of Santa Maria Nuova in the same city.. The Adoration of the Magi is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Pietro Perugino, housed in the Galleria Nazionale dell'Umbria of Perugia, Italy. According to Italian art historian Vittoria Garibaldi, it was one of the earliest commissions received by Perugino around the end of his apprenticeship in Florence (1472), while others date it to the late 1470s. The painting was originally executed for the church of Santa Maria dei Servi in Perugia, connected to the Baglioni family; in 1543 it was moved to the church of Santa Maria Nuova in the same city.. 
Belisarius Begging for Alms. Author Name: Jacques-Louis David. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . Belisarius Begging for Alms (French: Bélisaire demandant l'aumône) is a large-format (288 × 312 cm) history painting in oil on canvas by Jacques-Louis David. It depicts the Byzantine general Belisarius, who heroically defeated the Vandals in North Africa in AD 533–534 on behalf of Justinian I, and (according to an apocryphal account probably added to his biography in the Middle Ages) was later blinded by the emperor and reduced to begging for alms on the street. David exhibited the work at the Salon of 1781 after returning from Italy and it proved a great success.. Belisarius Begging for Alms (French: Bélisaire demandant l'aumône) is a large-format (288 × 312 cm) history painting in oil on canvas by Jacques-Louis David. It depicts the Byzantine general Belisarius, who heroically defeated the Vandals in North Africa in AD 533–534 on behalf of Justinian I, and (according to an apocryphal account probably added to his biography in the Middle Ages) was later blinded by the emperor and reduced to begging for alms on the street. David exhibited the work at the Salon of 1781 after returning from Italy and it proved a great success. It is now on show at the Palais des Beaux-Arts in Lille.. 
Lucretia. Author Name: Paolo Veronese. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . Lucretia is a painting by Paolo Veronese from c. 1585.. Lucretia is a painting by Paolo Veronese from c. 1585.. 
Masterpiece. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Masterpiece is a 1962 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein that uses his classic Ben-Day dots and a speech balloon. It is known for its narrative content that predicted Lichtenstein's fame.. Masterpiece is a 1962 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein that uses his classic Ben-Day dots and a speech balloon. It is known for its narrative content that predicted Lichtenstein's fame.. 
The Dream of the Fisherman's Wife. Author Name: Hokusai. . . The Dream of the Fisherman's Wife (蛸と海女 Tako to ama, literally Octopus(es) and shell diver), also known as Girl Diver and Octopi, Diver and Two Octopi, etc., is a woodcut design of the ukiyo-e genre by the Japanese artist Hokusai. It is from the book Kinoe no Komatsu (English: Young Pines), a three-volume book of shunga erotica first published in 1814, and is the most famous shunga Hokusai ever produced. Playing with themes popular in Japanese art, it depicts a young ama diver entwined sexually with a pair of octopuses.. The Dream of the Fisherman's Wife (蛸と海女 Tako to ama, literally Octopus(es) and shell diver), also known as Girl Diver and Octopi, Diver and Two Octopi, etc., is a woodcut design of the ukiyo-e genre by the Japanese artist Hokusai. It is from the book Kinoe no Komatsu (English: Young Pines), a three-volume book of shunga erotica first published in 1814, and is the most famous shunga Hokusai ever produced. Playing with themes popular in Japanese art, it depicts a young ama diver entwined sexually with a pair of octopuses.. 
Her Secret Is Patience. Author Name: Echelman, Janet. . . Her Secret Is Patience is a $2.5 million public art sculpture commission designed by artist Janet Echelman for the city of Phoenix. Its creation was the result of collaboration between the artist and a team of award-winning engineers, architects, planners, and fabricators. It is located downtown in the Civic Space Park across from the Walter Cronkite School of Journalism at Arizona State University. The sculpture consists of painted, galvanized steel; polyester twine netting; and colored lights. The title of the piece is a quote from Ralph Waldo Emerson and during construction it was unofficially titled Sky Bloom.. Her Secret Is Patience is a $2.5 million public art sculpture commission designed by artist Janet Echelman for the city of Phoenix. Its creation was the result of collaboration between the artist and a team of award-winning engineers, architects, planners, and fabricators. It is located downtown in the Civic Space Park across from the Walter Cronkite School of Journalism at Arizona State University. The sculpture consists of painted, galvanized steel; polyester twine netting; and colored lights. The title of the piece is a quote from Ralph Waldo Emerson and during construction it was unofficially titled Sky Bloom.. 
George Washington. Author Name: Pompeo Coppini. . . George Washington is an outdoor 1955 bronze sculpture by Italian American artist Pompeo Coppini, located on the University of Texas at Austin campus in Austin, Texas, in the United States.. George Washington is an outdoor 1955 bronze sculpture by Italian American artist Pompeo Coppini, located on the University of Texas at Austin campus in Austin, Texas, in the United States.. 
Jupiter et Semele. Author Name: Gustave Moreau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Symbolism_(arts). . Jupiter et Semele (1894-95; English, Jupiter and Semele) is a painting by the French Symbolist artist Gustave Moreau (1826-1898). It depicts a moment from the classical myth of the mortal woman Semele, mother of the god Dionysus, and her lover, Jupiter, the king of the gods. She was treacherously advised by the goddess Juno, Jupiter’s wife, to ask him to appear to her in all his divine splendor. He obliged, but, in so doing, brought about her violent death by his divine thunder and lightning. The painting is a representation of “divinized physical love” and the overpowering experience that consumes Semele as the god appears in his supreme beauty which has been called “quite simply the most sumptuous expression imaginable of an orgasm”.. Jupiter et Semele (1894-95; English, Jupiter and Semele) is a painting by the French Symbolist artist Gustave Moreau (1826-1898). It depicts a moment from the classical myth of the mortal woman Semele, mother of the god Dionysus, and her lover, Jupiter, the king of the gods. She was treacherously advised by the goddess Juno, Jupiter’s wife, to ask him to appear to her in all his divine splendor. He obliged, but, in so doing, brought about her violent death by his divine thunder and lightning. The painting is a representation of “divinized physical love” and the overpowering experience that consumes Semele as the god appears in his supreme beauty which has been called “quite simply the most sumptuous expression imaginable of an orgasm”. Of this work, Moreau himself wrote, “Semele, penetrated by the divine effluence, regenerated and purified by this consecration, dies struck by lightning and with her dies the genius of terrestrial love, the genius with the goat hooves”.. 
Cutting the Stone. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . Cutting the Stone, also called The Extraction of the Stone of Madness or The Cure of Folly, is a painting by Hieronymus Bosch, displayed in the Museo del Prado in Madrid, completed around 1494 or later.The painting depicts the extraction, by a man wearing a funnel hat, of the stone of madness, a "keye" (modern Dutch: kei) (in English a "stone" or "bulb") from a patient's head, using trepanation. In the painting Bosch has exchanged the traditional "stone" as the object of extraction with the bulb of a flower. Another flower is on the table.The Gothic inscription reads. Cutting the Stone, also called The Extraction of the Stone of Madness or The Cure of Folly, is a painting by Hieronymus Bosch, displayed in the Museo del Prado in Madrid, completed around 1494 or later. The painting depicts the extraction, by a man wearing a funnel hat, of the stone of madness, a "keye" (modern Dutch: kei) (in English a "stone" or "bulb") from a patient's head, using trepanation. In the painting Bosch has exchanged the traditional "stone" as the object of extraction with the bulb of a flower. Another flower is on the table. The Gothic inscription reads Lubbert Das was a comical (foolish) character in Dutch literature.. 
Portrait of a Young Man with a Lamp. Author Name: Lorenzo Lotto. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Portrait of a Young Man with a Lamp is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Lorenzo Lotto, dating to c. 1506. It is housed in the Kunsthistorisches Museum of Vienna, Austria.The work is generally ascribed to Lotto's stay in Treviso. In was acquired by the Viennese museum in 1816.. The Portrait of a Young Man with a Lamp is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Lorenzo Lotto, dating to c. 1506. It is housed in the Kunsthistorisches Museum of Vienna, Austria. The work is generally ascribed to Lotto's stay in Treviso. In was acquired by the Viennese museum in 1816.. 
Christ Falling on the Way to Calvary. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Christ Falling on the Way to Calvary, also known as Lo Spasimo or Il Spasimo di Sicilia, is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael, of c. 1514–16, now in the Museo del Prado in Madrid. It is an important work for the development of his style.. Christ Falling on the Way to Calvary, also known as Lo Spasimo or Il Spasimo di Sicilia, is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael, of c. 1514–16, now in the Museo del Prado in Madrid. It is an important work for the development of his style.. 
Chair Transformation Number 20B. Author Name: Lucas Samaras. . . Chair Transformation Number 20B is an abstract sculpture, by Lucas Samaras, in the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden.. Chair Transformation Number 20B is an abstract sculpture, by Lucas Samaras, in the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden.. 
Woman in Hat and Fur Collar. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The Woman in Hat and Fur Collar (Marie-Thérèse Walter) is a painting by Pablo Picasso exhibited at the National Art Museum of Catalonia (Museu Nacional d'Art de Catalunya) in Barcelona, Spain.. The Woman in Hat and Fur Collar (Marie-Thérèse Walter) is a painting by Pablo Picasso exhibited at the National Art Museum of Catalonia (Museu Nacional d'Art de Catalunya) in Barcelona, Spain.. 
Leda Atomica. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Leda Atomica is a painting by Salvador Dalí, made in 1949. The picture depicts Leda, the mythological queen of Sparta, with the swan. Leda is a frontal portrait of Dalí's wife, Gala, who is seated on a pedestal with a swan suspended behind and to her left. Different objects such as a book, a set square, two stepping stools and an egg float around the main figure. In the background on both sides, the rocks of Cap Norfeu (on the Costa Brava in Catalonia, between Roses and Cadaqués) define the location of the image.. Leda Atomica is a painting by Salvador Dalí, made in 1949. The picture depicts Leda, the mythological queen of Sparta, with the swan. Leda is a frontal portrait of Dalí's wife, Gala, who is seated on a pedestal with a swan suspended behind and to her left. Different objects such as a book, a set square, two stepping stools and an egg float around the main figure. In the background on both sides, the rocks of Cap Norfeu (on the Costa Brava in Catalonia, between Roses and Cadaqués) define the location of the image. The painting is exhibited in the Dalí Theatre and Museum in Figueres and Mirberry Mews, Nottingham courtesy of the Blackwell Art Foundation.. 
Christ Driving the Money Changers from the Temple. Author Name: El Greco. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . Christ Driving the Money Changers from the Temple is a painting by El Greco, from 1568, now in the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C., in the United States. It depicts the Cleansing of the Temple, an event in the Life of Christ.. Christ Driving the Money Changers from the Temple is a painting by El Greco, from 1568, now in the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C., in the United States. It depicts the Cleansing of the Temple, an event in the Life of Christ. There exist three other copies of the painting and also a faithful reproduction in the National Gallery in London, which has recently been considered as authentic by scholars in the field of visual arts. Two versions and that other on loan from Madrid are titled Purification of the Temple. The one at the National Gallery in Washington is called Christ Cleansing the Temple. The painting which bears this actual title belongs to the Minneapolis Institute of Art and it is somewhat different from all the other versions of this legendary Christian scene.. 
The Icebergs. Author Name: Frederic Edwin Church. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Hudson_River_School. . The Icebergs is an 1861 landscape oil painting by American painter Frederic Edwin Church that was inspired by sketches created on an 1859 voyage to the North Atlantic. He was accompanied by his friend, Louis Legrand Noble, who documented the voyage in his book, After Icebergs with a Painter. The painting measures at 64.5 × 112.5 in (163.8 × 285.8 cm) and is exhibited at the Dallas Museum of Art, who acquired it in 1979.. The Icebergs is an 1861 landscape oil painting by American painter Frederic Edwin Church that was inspired by sketches created on an 1859 voyage to the North Atlantic. He was accompanied by his friend, Louis Legrand Noble, who documented the voyage in his book, After Icebergs with a Painter. The painting measures at 64.5 × 112.5 in (163.8 × 285.8 cm) and is exhibited at the Dallas Museum of Art, who acquired it in 1979.. 
The World Trade Center Tapestry. Author Name: Joan Miró. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . The World Trade Center Tapestry was a large tapestry by Joan Miró and Josep Royo. It was displayed in the lobby of 2 World Trade Center (the South Tower) in New York from 1974 until it was destroyed in 2001.The work was an abstract design, with bright blocks of colour, red, green, blue and yellow, with black elements and a light brown background. Made of wool and hemp, it measured 20 × 35 feet (6.1 × 10.7 m) and weighed 4 tonnes. It was completed in 1973, and displayed at a retrospective at the Grand Palais in Paris before being installed in New York in 1974.. The World Trade Center Tapestry was a large tapestry by Joan Miró and Josep Royo. It was displayed in the lobby of 2 World Trade Center (the South Tower) in New York from 1974 until it was destroyed in 2001. Saul Wenegrat, former director of the art program for the Port Authority of New York, had suggested to Miró that he could make a tapestry for the World Trade Center, but the artist declined as he would only make the work with his own hands but had no experience of making a tapestry. However, after his daughter recovered from an accident in Spain, Miró agreed to make a tapestry for the hospital that had treated her, as a token of his gratitude. Having learned the technique from tapestry maker Josep Royo, Miró made several other tapestries with Royo, including one for the World Trade Center, Woman for the National Gallery of Art in Washington, DC, and one for the Fundació Joan Miró. The work was an abstract design, with bright blocks of colour, red, green, blue and yellow, with black elements and a light brown background. Made of wool and hemp, it measured 20 × 35 feet (6.1 × 10.7 m) and weighed 4 tonnes. It was completed in 1973, and displayed at a retrospective at the Grand Palais in Paris before being installed in New York in 1974.. 
Portrait of Maddalena Doni. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Maddalena Doni is an oil painting by Italian Renaissance master Raphael, made in 1506. It is housed in the Pitti Palace in Florence.. The Portrait of Maddalena Doni is an oil painting by Italian Renaissance master Raphael, made in 1506. It is housed in the Pitti Palace in Florence.. 
Landscape with Orpheus and Eurydice. Author Name: Nicolas Poussin. . Author Movement: Baroque. . Landscape with Orpheus and Eurydice is a huge 200 × 124 cm (approx 6.5 × 4 feet) oil-on-canvas by artist in the classical style Nicolas Poussin, painted between 1650 and 1653. It is currently held and exhibited at the Louvre in Paris. Landscape with Orpheus and Eurydice is a huge 200 × 124 cm (approx 6.5 × 4 feet) oil-on-canvas by artist in the classical style Nicolas Poussin, painted between 1650 and 1653. It is currently held and exhibited at the Louvre in Paris. 
Catherine Brass Yates. Author Name: Gilbert Stuart. . . Catherine Brass Yates is an oil on canvas painting undertaken in 1793–94 by the American artist Gilbert Stuart.. Catherine Brass Yates is an oil on canvas painting undertaken in 1793–94 by the American artist Gilbert Stuart.. 
Man Writing a Letter. Author Name: Gabriël Metsu. . . Man Writing a Letter is an oil painting on a wood panel by Gabriël Metsu made at the height of his career. It is assumed to be a pair with Woman Reading a Letter. The two genre paintings (together with the "Sick Child") are regarded as Metsu's artistic climax. Since 1987 they can be seen in the collection of the National Gallery of Ireland in Dublin.. Man Writing a Letter is an oil painting on a wood panel by Gabriël Metsu made at the height of his career. It is assumed to be a pair with Woman Reading a Letter. The two genre paintings (together with the "Sick Child") are regarded as Metsu's artistic climax. Since 1987 they can be seen in the collection of the National Gallery of Ireland in Dublin.. 
Untitled. Author Name: Roland Hobart. . . Untitled (Urban Wall) is an outdoor mural by Austrian artist Roland Hobart located at 32 North Delaware Street in downtown Indianapolis, Indiana. The mural originally occupied two exterior walls of two four-story commercial buildings at this site. The mural was commissioned by the City of Indianapolis for the Indianapolis Urban Walls Project in 1973. Fabrication of the mural began in September 1973 and finished by the end of the year.. Untitled (Urban Wall) is an outdoor mural by Austrian artist Roland Hobart located at 32 North Delaware Street in downtown Indianapolis, Indiana. The mural originally occupied two exterior walls of two four-story commercial buildings at this site. The mural was commissioned by the City of Indianapolis for the Indianapolis Urban Walls Project in 1973. Fabrication of the mural began in September 1973 and finished by the end of the year.. 
Elkhorn. Author Name: Kelly, Lee. . . Elkhorn is an outdoor 1979 sculpture by Lee Kelly, installed at Catlin Gabel School in West Haven-Sylvan, a census-designated place in Washington County and the Portland metropolitan area, in the U.S. state of Oregon.. Elkhorn is an outdoor 1979 sculpture by Lee Kelly, installed at Catlin Gabel School in West Haven-Sylvan, a census-designated place in Washington County and the Portland metropolitan area, in the U.S. state of Oregon.. 
Three Women. Author Name: Umberto Boccioni. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Futurism. . Three Women or Tre donne was painted by Umberto Boccioni between the years of 1909 and 1910. This painting is oil on canvas painted in the style of divisionism. Divisionism refers to the actual division of colors by creating separated brush strokes as opposed to smooth, solid lines. The painting contains three figures, one being Boccioni’s mother Cecilia on the left, another being his sister, Amelia on the right, and the third being Ines, his lover, in the center.. Three Women or Tre donne was painted by Umberto Boccioni between the years of 1909 and 1910. This painting is oil on canvas painted in the style of divisionism. Divisionism refers to the actual division of colors by creating separated brush strokes as opposed to smooth, solid lines. The painting contains three figures, one being Boccioni’s mother Cecilia on the left, another being his sister, Amelia on the right, and the third being Ines, his lover, in the center.. 
Portrait of Andrea Doria. Author Name: Sebastiano del Piombo. . Author Movement: Mannerism. . The Portrait of Andrea Doria is a painting finished circa 1526 by the Italian High Renaissance painter Sebastiano Del Piombo. It is housed in the Doria Pamphilj Gallery of Rome.. The Portrait of Andrea Doria is a painting finished circa 1526 by the Italian High Renaissance painter Sebastiano Del Piombo. It is housed in the Doria Pamphilj Gallery of Rome.. 
Farnese Hercules. Author Name: Lyssipos. . . The Farnese Hercules is an ancient statue of Hercules, probably an enlarged copy made in the early third century AD and signed by Glykon, who is otherwise unknown; the name is Greek but he may have worked in Rome. Like much Ancient Roman sculpture it is a copy or version of a much older Greek original that was well-known, in this case an original by Lysippos (or one of his circle) that would have been made in the fourth century BC. The enlarged copy was made for the Baths of Caracalla in Rome (dedicated in 216 AD), where the statue was recovered in 1546, and is now in the Museo Archeologico Nazionale in Naples. The heroically-scaled Hercules is one of the most famous sculptures of antiquity, and has fixed the image of the mythic hero in the European imagination.. The Farnese Hercules is an ancient statue of Hercules, probably an enlarged copy made in the early third century AD and signed by Glykon, who is otherwise unknown; the name is Greek but he may have worked in Rome. Like much Ancient Roman sculpture it is a copy or version of a much older Greek original that was well-known, in this case an original by Lysippos (or one of his circle) that would have been made in the fourth century BC. The enlarged copy was made for the Baths of Caracalla in Rome (dedicated in 216 AD), where the statue was recovered in 1546, and is now in the Museo Archeologico Nazionale in Naples. The heroically-scaled Hercules is one of the most famous sculptures of antiquity, and has fixed the image of the mythic hero in the European imagination. The Farnese Hercules is a massive marble statue, following a lost original cast in bronze through a method called lost wax casting. It depicts a muscular, yet weary, Hercules leaning on his club, which has the skin of the Nemean lion draped over it. In myths about Heracles, killing the lion was his first task. He has just performed one of the last of The Twelve Labours, which is suggested by the apples of the Hesperides he holds behind his back. The type was well known in antiquity, and among many other versions a Hellenistic or Roman bronze reduction, found at Foligno is in the Musée du Louvre. A small Roman marble copy can be seen in the Museum of the Ancient Agora, Athens (see illustration). In both of these the musculature is less pronounced than in the Farnese staue, probably reflecting the lost original.. 
Flamingo. Author Name: Alexander "Sandy" Calder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstraction_(art). . Flamingo, created by noted American artist Alexander Calder, is a 53-foot (16 m) tall stabile located in the Federal Plaza in front of the Kluczynski Federal Building in Chicago, Illinois, United States. It was commissioned by the United States General Services Administration and was unveiled in 1974, although Calder's signature on the sculpture indicates it was constructed in 1973.. Flamingo, created by noted American artist Alexander Calder, is a 53-foot (16 m) tall stabile located in the Federal Plaza in front of the Kluczynski Federal Building in Chicago, Illinois, United States. It was commissioned by the United States General Services Administration and was unveiled in 1974, although Calder's signature on the sculpture indicates it was constructed in 1973.. 
Still Life with a Poem. Author Name: Juan Gris. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Still Life with a Poem is an oil painting by Spanish artist Juan Gris, completed in 1915.. Still Life with a Poem is an oil painting by Spanish artist Juan Gris, completed in 1915.. 
St. John the Baptist. Author Name: Lorenzo Ghiberti. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . St. John the Baptist (1412–1416) is a bronze statue by Lorenzo Ghiberti located in one of the 14 niches of the Orsanmichele in Florence, Italy. The statue of the Saint was commissioned by the cloth merchant's guild, the Arte di Calimala. The artist's use of the unnaturalistic but elegant curves in the hair and drapery of the saint show the influence of the International Gothic style prevalent in Italy at the time the work was created. The work was successfully cast in a single piece, making it the first bronze statue of its size to be cast in a single piece for at least several hundred years in Italy.. St. John the Baptist (1412–1416) is a bronze statue by Lorenzo Ghiberti located in one of the 14 niches of the Orsanmichele in Florence, Italy. The statue of the Saint was commissioned by the cloth merchant's guild, the Arte di Calimala. The artist's use of the unnaturalistic but elegant curves in the hair and drapery of the saint show the influence of the International Gothic style prevalent in Italy at the time the work was created. The work was successfully cast in a single piece, making it the first bronze statue of its size to be cast in a single piece for at least several hundred years in Italy.. 
Mandola. Author Name: Georges Braque. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Mandola a 1910 oil painting by French artist Georges Braque, acknowledged as a masterpiece of analytical cubism and exhibited at the Tate Modern gallery in London.. Mandola a 1910 oil painting by French artist Georges Braque, acknowledged as a masterpiece of analytical cubism and exhibited at the Tate Modern gallery in London.. 
Morning in a Pine Forest. Author Name: Ivan Shishkin. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Morning in a Pine Forest (Russian: Утро в сосновом лесу) is a painting by Russian artists Ivan Shishkin and Konstantin Savitsky. Savitsky has painted the bears, but the art collector Pavel Tretyakov effaced his signature, stating that "from idea until performance, everything discloses the painting manner and creative method peculiar just to Shishkin", so the painting is now credited solely to Shishkin.It is believed that Shishkin painted the pine trees near Narva-Jõesuu in Estonia, where he often liked to rest in summers.. The Morning in a Pine Forest (Russian: Утро в сосновом лесу) is a painting by Russian artists Ivan Shishkin and Konstantin Savitsky. Savitsky has painted the bears, but the art collector Pavel Tretyakov effaced his signature, stating that "from idea until performance, everything discloses the painting manner and creative method peculiar just to Shishkin", so the painting is now credited solely to Shishkin. The Morning in a Pine Forest turned very popular, being reproduced on various items, including the "Clumsy Bear" chocolates by Krasny Oktyabr. According to one poll, the painting is the second most popular in Russia behind Bogatyrs by Viktor Vasnetsov. Shishkin's similar paintings are the Forest in Spring (1884) and The Sestroretsk Forest (1896). It is believed that Shishkin painted the pine trees near Narva-Jõesuu in Estonia, where he often liked to rest in summers.. 
Upstart. Author Name: Clement Meadmore. . . Upstart is a public art work by Australian-American artist Clement Meadmore located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture is an abstract, twisting form made of weathering steel; it is installed on the lawn.. Upstart is a public art work by Australian-American artist Clement Meadmore located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture is an abstract, twisting form made of weathering steel; it is installed on the lawn.. 
Sarah Barrett Moulton: Pinkie. Author Name: Sir Thomas Lawrence. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . Pinkie is the traditional title for a portrait made in 1794 by Thomas Lawrence in the permanent collection of the Huntington Library at San Marino, California where it hangs opposite The Blue Boy by Thomas Gainsborough. The title now given it by the museum is Sarah Barrett Moulton: Pinkie. These two works are the centerpieces of the institute's art collection, which specialises in 18th-century English portraiture. The painting is an elegant depiction of Sarah Barrett Moulton, who was about eleven years old when painted. Her direct gaze and the loose, energetic brushwork give the portrait a lively immediacy.. Pinkie is the traditional title for a portrait made in 1794 by Thomas Lawrence in the permanent collection of the Huntington Library at San Marino, California where it hangs opposite The Blue Boy by Thomas Gainsborough. The title now given it by the museum is Sarah Barrett Moulton: Pinkie. These two works are the centerpieces of the institute's art collection, which specialises in 18th-century English portraiture. The painting is an elegant depiction of Sarah Barrett Moulton, who was about eleven years old when painted. Her direct gaze and the loose, energetic brushwork give the portrait a lively immediacy.. 
Madonna with the Fish. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Madonna of the Fish, known also as Madonna with the Fish is a painting by the Italian master Raphael in the gallery at Madrid and is done in the painter's most perfect style. Mary sits enthroned with the Jesus on her knee. On one side is St. Jerome kneeling by the Lion; he is holding a book. On the other side the archangel Raphael is presenting at the foot of the throne the young Tobias, whom he formerly guided to the River Tigris, and who bears the miraculous fish whose heart, liver and gall were to restore his father's sight, and drive the demons from his bride. Tobias with his fish was an early type of baptism. Raphael leading Tobias always expresses protection, and especially protection to the young. The picture is believed to have been painted to commemorate the introduction of Book o. Madonna of the Fish, known also as Madonna with the Fish is a painting by the Italian master Raphael in the gallery at Madrid and is done in the painter's most perfect style. Mary sits enthroned with the Jesus on her knee. On one side is St. Jerome kneeling by the Lion; he is holding a book. On the other side the archangel Raphael is presenting at the foot of the throne the young Tobias, whom he formerly guided to the River Tigris, and who bears the miraculous fish whose heart, liver and gall were to restore his father's sight, and drive the demons from his bride. Tobias with his fish was an early type of baptism. Raphael leading Tobias always expresses protection, and especially protection to the young. The picture is believed to have been painted to commemorate the introduction of Book of Tobit among the canonical books of the Roman Catholic Church. St. Jerome translated the Book of Tobit into Latin, which explains his presence on the right of Mary.. 
Circumcision of Jesus. Author Name: Parmigianino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . The painting by the Italian Mannerist artist Parmigianino of the common subject of the Circumcision of Jesus was made around 1523 and is now in the Detroit Institute of Arts, Michigan, United States.. The painting by the Italian Mannerist artist Parmigianino of the common subject of the Circumcision of Jesus was made around 1523 and is now in the Detroit Institute of Arts, Michigan, United States.. 
Aero Memorial. Author Name: Paul Manship. . . The Aero Memorial is a gilded bronze sculpture by Paul Manship, commissioned by the Association for Public Art (formerly the Fairmount Park Art Association). Aero Memorial is located in Philadelphia's Aviator Park, across from The Franklin Institute at 20th Street and the Benjamin Franklin Parkway. The memorial is a tribute to those aviators who died in WWI, and it was initiated by the Aero Club of Pennsylvania in 1917 with the help of the Fairmount Park Art Association. The Aero Club donated modest funds into the Fairmount Park Art Association in 1917 for the creation of the memorial, and after years of fundraising, the Art Association was finally able to contact Paul Manship for the commission 1939. The idea for a celestial sphere was approved in 1944, and the sculpture was completed in . The Aero Memorial is a gilded bronze sculpture by Paul Manship, commissioned by the Association for Public Art (formerly the Fairmount Park Art Association). Aero Memorial is located in Philadelphia's Aviator Park, across from The Franklin Institute at 20th Street and the Benjamin Franklin Parkway. The memorial is a tribute to those aviators who died in WWI, and it was initiated by the Aero Club of Pennsylvania in 1917 with the help of the Fairmount Park Art Association. The Aero Club donated modest funds into the Fairmount Park Art Association in 1917 for the creation of the memorial, and after years of fundraising, the Art Association was finally able to contact Paul Manship for the commission 1939. The idea for a celestial sphere was approved in 1944, and the sculpture was completed in 1948. Aero Memorial was dedicated on June 1, 1950. Aero Memorial is one of 51 sculptures included in the Association for Public Art's Museum Without Walls™: AUDIO interpretive audio program for Philadelphia's outdoor sculpture. The inscription reads:(Sphere is inscribed with the Latin names of constellations and planets)(Base, front:) AEROMEMORIALWORLD WAR I1917–1918 (Base, front:) JULIAN BIDDLEHOWARD FOULKE DAY(...transcription illegible) ON DOWNS, JR.(...transcription illegible) CHRISTIAN CLANZWILLIAM BESSE KOEN(...transcription illegible) TON WOODWARD (A plaque with the insignia of the Fairmount Park Art Association appears on the base.). 
Still Water. Author Name: Fiddian-Green, Nic. . . Still Water is a 2011 outdoor bronze sculpture of a horse's head by Nic Fiddian-Green, located at Marble Arch in London, United Kingdom.The 33 feet (10 m) piece was commissioned to replace an earlier and similar, but slightly smaller, work, Horse at Water. This was installed at the same site temporarily, but then moved to Daylesford, Gloucestershire, the home of Sir Anthony and Lady Carole Bamford, who had commissioned it.In 2012, Fiddian-Green cleaned the sculpture himself, using a cherry picker. He said:. Still Water is a 2011 outdoor bronze sculpture of a horse's head by Nic Fiddian-Green, located at Marble Arch in London, United Kingdom. The 33 feet (10 m) piece was commissioned to replace an earlier and similar, but slightly smaller, work, Horse at Water. This was installed at the same site temporarily, but then moved to Daylesford, Gloucestershire, the home of Sir Anthony and Lady Carole Bamford, who had commissioned it. In 2012, Fiddian-Green cleaned the sculpture himself, using a cherry picker. He said:. 
Fall of the Damned. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . Fall of the Damned into Hell is a Hieronymus Bosch painting made sometime before 1490. It is currently in the Palazzo Ducale, in Venice, Italy.This painting is part of a series of four; the others are Ascent of the Blessed, Terrestrial Paradise and Hell.. Fall of the Damned into Hell is a Hieronymus Bosch painting made sometime before 1490. It is currently in the Palazzo Ducale, in Venice, Italy. This painting is part of a series of four; the others are Ascent of the Blessed, Terrestrial Paradise and Hell.. 
Ruby Loftus Screwing a Breech Ring. Author Name: Laura Knight. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Ruby Loftus Screwing a Breech Ring is a 1943 painting by the British painter Laura Knight depicting a young woman, Ruby Loftus (1921–2004), working at an industrial lathe as part of the British war effort in World War II. The painting was commissioned by the War Artists' Advisory Committee (WAAC), and is now part of the Imperial War Museum's art collection. The painting brought instant fame to Loftus, and has been likened to the American figure of "Rosie the Riveter".. Ruby Loftus Screwing a Breech Ring is a 1943 painting by the British painter Laura Knight depicting a young woman, Ruby Loftus (1921–2004), working at an industrial lathe as part of the British war effort in World War II. The painting was commissioned by the War Artists' Advisory Committee (WAAC), and is now part of the Imperial War Museum's art collection. The painting brought instant fame to Loftus, and has been likened to the American figure of "Rosie the Riveter".. 
Trains to Life – Trains to Death. Author Name: Meisler, Frank. . . Trains to Life – Trains to Death is an outdoor bronze sculpture by architect and sculptor Frank Meisler, installed outside the Friedrichstraße station at the intersection of Georgenstraße and Friedrichstraße, in Berlin, Germany.. Trains to Life – Trains to Death is an outdoor bronze sculpture by architect and sculptor Frank Meisler, installed outside the Friedrichstraße station at the intersection of Georgenstraße and Friedrichstraße, in Berlin, Germany.. 
Saint Vincent Tied to a Column. Author Name: Nuno Gonçalves. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Portuguese_Renaissance. . Saint Vincent Tied to a Column (Portuguese: São Vicente Atado à Coluna) is a painting by Portuguese Renaissance artist Nuno Gonçalves. It is held at the National Museum of Ancient Art, in Lisbon.. Saint Vincent Tied to a Column (Portuguese: São Vicente Atado à Coluna) is a painting by Portuguese Renaissance artist Nuno Gonçalves. It is held at the National Museum of Ancient Art, in Lisbon.. 
The Wood. Author Name: Max Ernst. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dada. . The Wood (1927) is a painting by the German surrealist Max Ernst.Ernst was haunted by the atmosphere of forests and by the birds which inhabit them. Here, the herring-bone effect of the trees and the grainy sky reveal his technique of grattage. Layers of paint were applied to the canvas, which was pressed against a sheet of stamped metal and a rough plank and scraped. This work was given to the Contemporary Art Society by Miss A.F. Brown in 1940. It is currently on display in the National Museum of Wales.. The Wood (1927) is a painting by the German surrealist Max Ernst. Ernst was haunted by the atmosphere of forests and by the birds which inhabit them. Here, the herring-bone effect of the trees and the grainy sky reveal his technique of grattage. Layers of paint were applied to the canvas, which was pressed against a sheet of stamped metal and a rough plank and scraped. This work was given to the Contemporary Art Society by Miss A.F. Brown in 1940. It is currently on display in the National Museum of Wales.. 
Tau. Author Name: Tony Smith. . . American sculptor Tony Smith designed "“Tau”" in the early 1960s. It is 14’ high x 12’ wide x 12’ deep, and made from black painted steel. Its title refers to the Greek letter 'T', which also describes the shape of the sculpture. Fascinated by mathematics, biology and crystals, Smith designed Tau with geometry at its root. There are two extant versions of the large sculpture: Tau (AP), and Tau (1/3).. American sculptor Tony Smith designed "“Tau”" in the early 1960s. It is 14’ high x 12’ wide x 12’ deep, and made from black painted steel. Its title refers to the Greek letter 'T', which also describes the shape of the sculpture. Fascinated by mathematics, biology and crystals, Smith designed Tau with geometry at its root. There are two extant versions of the large sculpture: Tau (AP), and Tau (1/3).. 
Number 23 Basketball Player. Author Name: Niki de Saint Phalle. . . Number 23 Basketball Player is a sculpture by Niki de Saint Phalle.It is from the Black Heroes Series.It is part of the National Museum of Women in the Arts,  New York Avenue Sculpture Project.. Number 23 Basketball Player is a sculpture by Niki de Saint Phalle. It is from the Black Heroes Series. It is part of the National Museum of Women in the Arts, New York Avenue Sculpture Project.. 
Praying Hands. Author Name: Albrecht Dürer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Betende Hände, in English Praying hands (also known as Studie zu den Händen eines Apostels in German, or Study of the Hands of an Apostle) is a pen-and-ink drawing by the German printmaker, painter and theorist Albrecht Dürer, executed c. 1508. The artwork is stored at Albertina museum — Graphische Sammlung in Vienna, Austria. Dürer used white heightening technique and black ink on (self-made) blue colored paper. The drawing shows two male hands palm to palm praying, the body to the right (not seen). Also, the partly up-folded sleeves of the prayer are seen.. Betende Hände, in English Praying hands (also known as Studie zu den Händen eines Apostels in German, or Study of the Hands of an Apostle) is a pen-and-ink drawing by the German printmaker, painter and theorist Albrecht Dürer, executed c. 1508. The artwork is stored at Albertina museum — Graphische Sammlung in Vienna, Austria. Dürer used white heightening technique and black ink on (self-made) blue colored paper. The drawing shows two male hands palm to palm praying, the body to the right (not seen). Also, the partly up-folded sleeves of the prayer are seen. The drawing is a sketch (study) for an apostles' hand who was planned to be in the center panel of the triptych for the Heller altar, which was destroyed by a fire in 1729. The hand sketch appears on the triptych in the inside center panel on the right in similarity, although in smaller size. On the same paper is a sketch of the apostle's head, but the sheet has been divided from it. Overall, Dürer made 18 sketches for the altarpiece. The first public recognition of the artwork was in 1871 when it was exhibited in Vienna. The image depicts probably the master's own hands.. 
Galatea of the Spheres. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Galatea of the Spheres is a painting by Salvador Dalí made in 1952. It depicts Gala Dalí, Salvador Dalí's wife and muse, as pieced together through a series of spheres. The name Galatea refers to a sea nymph of Classical mythology renowned for her virtue, and may also refer to the statue beloved by its creator, Pygmalion.. Galatea of the Spheres is a painting by Salvador Dalí made in 1952. It depicts Gala Dalí, Salvador Dalí's wife and muse, as pieced together through a series of spheres. The name Galatea refers to a sea nymph of Classical mythology renowned for her virtue, and may also refer to the statue beloved by its creator, Pygmalion.. 
Portrait of Pietro Bembo. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Portrait of Pietro Bembo, also called Portrait of the Young Pietro Bembo, is an oil painting by Italian artist Raphael. Completed ca. 1506, the painting hangs in the Museum of Fine Arts in Budapest.The image is ostensibly a portrait of Venetian Cardinal Pietro Bembo, Raphael's long-time friend. Raphael did make a black chalk drawing of Bembo during Bembo's visit to Urbino in 1506. The picture hung in Bembo's home for years before it disappeared.. Portrait of Pietro Bembo, also called Portrait of the Young Pietro Bembo, is an oil painting by Italian artist Raphael. Completed ca. 1506, the painting hangs in the Museum of Fine Arts in Budapest. The image is ostensibly a portrait of Venetian Cardinal Pietro Bembo, Raphael's long-time friend. Raphael did make a black chalk drawing of Bembo during Bembo's visit to Urbino in 1506. The picture hung in Bembo's home for years before it disappeared. The lack of resemblance of this picture to its namesake, particularly in the nose, has led to other subjects being proposed, including Agnolo Doni, whom Raphael painted around the same time. In a 2004 biography of Bembo, Carol Kidwell states that the subject "appears a happy courtier, not a man set on making his mark in the world, and he wears a red beret while Venetian noblemen wore black.". 
The Rescue. Author Name: Sir John Everett Millais, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pre-Raphaelite_Brotherhood. . The Rescue (1855) is a painting by John Everett Millais depicting a fireman rescuing three children from a house fire, with their mother receiving them back into her arms.Millais witnessed the death of a fireman in the course of a rescue, and decided to depict the subject. The fire brigade had only recently been transformed from private businesses dedicated to the protection of property to a public institution charged to protect life first.. The Rescue (1855) is a painting by John Everett Millais depicting a fireman rescuing three children from a house fire, with their mother receiving them back into her arms. Millais witnessed the death of a fireman in the course of a rescue, and decided to depict the subject. The fire brigade had only recently been transformed from private businesses dedicated to the protection of property to a public institution charged to protect life first. Millais sought to create the correct effects of light and smoke by using a sheet of coloured glass and by burning planks of wood. This emphasis on fleeting effects of colour and light was a new departure in his art. The painting is also notable for its startling transitions of colour, particularly the dramatic effect by which the sleeve of the mother's nightgown changes from slatey blue to pale pink. This led to much critical comment at the time. Robyn Cooper argues that some criticism of the painting arose from the fact that it depicted a virile working class man rescuing middle class children, while their father is nowhere to be seen. The mother's opened arms seem to greet this strong new man as much as her children.. 
The Fifer. Author Name: Édouard Manet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Fifer or Young Flautist is a painting by French painter Édouard Manet, made in 1866. It is currently kept in the Musée d'Orsay, Paris.. The Fifer or Young Flautist is a painting by French painter Édouard Manet, made in 1866. It is currently kept in the Musée d'Orsay, Paris.. 
Venus with a Mirror. Author Name: Titian. . . Venus with a Mirror (about 1555) is a painting by Titian, now in the National Gallery of Art in Washington, DC, and it is considered to be one of the collection's highlights.. Venus with a Mirror (about 1555) is a painting by Titian, now in the National Gallery of Art in Washington, DC, and it is considered to be one of the collection's highlights.. 
São Paulo. Author Name: Nuno Gonçalves. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Portuguese_Renaissance. . São Paulo (English: Saint Paul) is a painting by Portuguese Renaissance artist Nuno Gonçalves. It is held at the National Museum of Ancient Art, in Lisbon.. São Paulo (English: Saint Paul) is a painting by Portuguese Renaissance artist Nuno Gonçalves. It is held at the National Museum of Ancient Art, in Lisbon.. 
Air. Author Name: Aristide Maillol. . . Air is a lead or bronze sculpture, by Aristide Maillol.He modeled Dina Vierny in plaster in 1938, and casts were made after his death. It is an edition of six.Examples are located at the Kröller-Müller Museum, Yale University Art Gallery, Jardin des Tuileries, J. Paul Getty Museum, Norton Simon Museum, and Kimbell Art Museum.. Air is a lead or bronze sculpture, by Aristide Maillol. He modeled Dina Vierny in plaster in 1938, and casts were made after his death. It is an edition of six. Examples are located at the Kröller-Müller Museum, Yale University Art Gallery, Jardin des Tuileries, J. Paul Getty Museum, Norton Simon Museum, and Kimbell Art Museum.. 
Malaya Sadovaya Street. Author Name: Alexander Mikhailovich Semionov. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . "The Fine Art of Leningrad" is an important component of twentieth-century Russian Soviet art, in the opinion of the art historians Vladimir Gusev and Vladimir Leniashin "one of its most powerful currents". This widely used term embraces the creative lives and the achievements of several generations of Leningrad painters, sculptors, graphic artists and creators of decorative and applied art from 1917 to the early 1990s.. "The Fine Art of Leningrad" is an important component of twentieth-century Russian Soviet art, in the opinion of the art historians Vladimir Gusev and Vladimir Leniashin "one of its most powerful currents". This widely used term embraces the creative lives and the achievements of several generations of Leningrad painters, sculptors, graphic artists and creators of decorative and applied art from 1917 to the early 1990s.. 
The Painter and The Buyer. Author Name: Pieter Bruegel the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_and_Flemish_Renaissance_painting. . The Painter and The Buyer is a 1565 pen and ink on brown paper painting by German artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder. The alternative title is The Artist and The Connoisseur.The painter is thought to be a self-portrait of Pieter Bruegel the Elder.. The Painter and The Buyer is a 1565 pen and ink on brown paper painting by German artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder. The alternative title is The Artist and The Connoisseur. The painter is thought to be a self-portrait of Pieter Bruegel the Elder.. 
St. John on Patmos. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . St. John on Patmos is a painting by Hieronymus Bosch. The painting is currently in the Gemäldegalerie, in Berlin, Germany.The reverse is also painted, the title of that picture is Scenes from the Passion of Christ and the Pelican with Her Young.. St. John on Patmos is a painting by Hieronymus Bosch. The painting is currently in the Gemäldegalerie, in Berlin, Germany.The reverse is also painted, the title of that picture is Scenes from the Passion of Christ and the Pelican with Her Young.. 
Mural Paintings from the Herrera Chapel. Author Name: Annibale Carracci. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Mural Paintings from the Herrera Chapel is group of mural painting by Annibale Carracci and collaborators, conserved between the National Art Museum of Catalonia and de Museo del Prado.. The Mural Paintings from the Herrera Chapel is group of mural painting by Annibale Carracci and collaborators, conserved between the National Art Museum of Catalonia and de Museo del Prado.. 
Bigger Trees Near Warter. Author Name: David Hockney. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Bigger Trees Near Warter or ou Peinture en Plein Air pour l'age Post-Photographique is a large landscape painting by British artist David Hockney. Measuring 15 feet (4.6 m) by 40 feet (12 m), it depicts a coppice near Warter, Pocklington in the East Riding of Yorkshire and is the largest painting Hockney has completed. It was painted in the East Riding of Yorkshire between February and March 2007. The painting's alternative title alludes to the technique Hockney used to create the work, a combination of painting out of doors and in front of the subject (called in French ‘sur le motif’) whilst also using the techniques of digital photography.. Bigger Trees Near Warter or ou Peinture en Plein Air pour l'age Post-Photographique is a large landscape painting by British artist David Hockney. Measuring 15 feet (4.6 m) by 40 feet (12 m), it depicts a coppice near Warter, Pocklington in the East Riding of Yorkshire and is the largest painting Hockney has completed. It was painted in the East Riding of Yorkshire between February and March 2007. The painting's alternative title alludes to the technique Hockney used to create the work, a combination of painting out of doors and in front of the subject (called in French ‘sur le motif’) whilst also using the techniques of digital photography.. 
Portrait of a Young Man. Author Name: Antonello da Messina. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Portrait of a Man is a painting by Italian Renaissance artist Antonello da Messina, currently housed in the National Gallery of London, United Kingdom. It was printed on the Italian 5,000 lire note issued from 1979 to 1983.. Portrait of a Man is a painting by Italian Renaissance artist Antonello da Messina, currently housed in the National Gallery of London, United Kingdom. It was printed on the Italian 5,000 lire note issued from 1979 to 1983.. 
The Dreamer. Author Name: Izquierdo, Manuel. . . The Dreamer, or simply Dreamer, is an outdoor 1979 muntz bronze sculpture and fountain of a reclining woman by Manuel Izquierdo, installed at Pettygrove Park in Portland, Oregon, United States. It is part of the City of Portland and Multnomah County Public Art Collection courtesy of the Regional Arts & Culture Council, which administers the work.. The Dreamer, or simply Dreamer, is an outdoor 1979 muntz bronze sculpture and fountain of a reclining woman by Manuel Izquierdo, installed at Pettygrove Park in Portland, Oregon, United States. It is part of the City of Portland and Multnomah County Public Art Collection courtesy of the Regional Arts & Culture Council, which administers the work.. 
Apparition of Christ to the Virgin. Author Name: Filippino Lippi. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Apparition of Christ to the Virgin is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Filippino Lippi, executed around 1493 and now housed in the Alte Pinakothek of Munich, Germany.The work dates to around to the period after Lippi's return to Florence after his works in the Carafa Chapel at Rome. It is perhaps to be identified with the panel mentioned by the Renaissance art historian Giorgio Vasari in the church of San Francesco al Palco of Prato. In the 19th century, Ludwig I of Bavaria acquired the paintings, which later, together with the other royal collections, was included in the Alte Pinakothek.. The Apparition of Christ to the Virgin is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Filippino Lippi, executed around 1493 and now housed in the Alte Pinakothek of Munich, Germany. The work dates to around to the period after Lippi's return to Florence after his works in the Carafa Chapel at Rome. It is perhaps to be identified with the panel mentioned by the Renaissance art historian Giorgio Vasari in the church of San Francesco al Palco of Prato. In the 19th century, Ludwig I of Bavaria acquired the paintings, which later, together with the other royal collections, was included in the Alte Pinakothek.. 
White Center. Author Name: Mark Rothko. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . White Center (Yellow, Pink and Lavender on Rose) is an abstract painting by Mark Rothko completed in 1950.. White Center (Yellow, Pink and Lavender on Rose) is an abstract painting by Mark Rothko completed in 1950.. 
Ecstasy of Saint Teresa. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Ecstasy of Saint Teresa (alternatively Saint Teresa in Ecstasy or Transverberation of Saint Teresa; in Italian: L'Estasi di Santa Teresa or Santa Teresa in estasi) is the central sculptural group in white marble set in an elevated aedicule in the Cornaro Chapel, Santa Maria della Vittoria, Rome. It was designed and completed by Gian Lorenzo Bernini, the leading sculptor of his day, who also designed the setting of the Chapel in marble, stucco and paint. It is generally considered to be one of the sculptural masterpieces of the High Roman Baroque. It pictures Teresa of Ávila.. The Ecstasy of Saint Teresa (alternatively Saint Teresa in Ecstasy or Transverberation of Saint Teresa; in Italian: L'Estasi di Santa Teresa or Santa Teresa in estasi) is the central sculptural group in white marble set in an elevated aedicule in the Cornaro Chapel, Santa Maria della Vittoria, Rome. It was designed and completed by Gian Lorenzo Bernini, the leading sculptor of his day, who also designed the setting of the Chapel in marble, stucco and paint. It is generally considered to be one of the sculptural masterpieces of the High Roman Baroque. It pictures Teresa of Ávila.. 
Self-Portrait. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . This 1629 self-portrait by Dutch painter Rembrandt van Rijn is part of the Clowes Fund Collection of the Indianapolis Museum of Art in Indianapolis, Indiana. It is among the earliest of his self-portraits (possibly the very first), of which he produced dozens over the course of four decades.. This 1629 self-portrait by Dutch painter Rembrandt van Rijn is part of the Clowes Fund Collection of the Indianapolis Museum of Art in Indianapolis, Indiana. It is among the earliest of his self-portraits (possibly the very first), of which he produced dozens over the course of four decades.. 
Starry Night. Author Name: Edvard Munch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Expressionism. . Starry Night (Norwegian: Stjernenatt) is an oil-on-canvas painting created by the Expressionist artist Edvard Munch in 1893. This night landscape represents the coastline at Åsgårdstrand, a small beach resort south of Oslo in Norway, where Edvard Munch had spent his summers since the late 1880s.. Starry Night (Norwegian: Stjernenatt) is an oil-on-canvas painting created by the Expressionist artist Edvard Munch in 1893. This night landscape represents the coastline at Åsgårdstrand, a small beach resort south of Oslo in Norway, where Edvard Munch had spent his summers since the late 1880s.. 
The Annunciation. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Annunciation, also known as the Cestello Annunciation, is a tempera painting created in 1489 by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli. It is housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence and has been part of the collection since 1872.The picture was commissioned in May of 1489 to decorate the chapel of the Florentine monastery Cestello, which is now known as Santa Maria Maddalena de'Pazzi.. The Annunciation, also known as the Cestello Annunciation, is a tempera painting created in 1489 by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli. It is housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence and has been part of the collection since 1872. The picture was commissioned in May of 1489 to decorate the chapel of the Florentine monastery Cestello, which is now known as Santa Maria Maddalena de'Pazzi. The subject of the painting is the Annunciation, in which the angel Gabriel visits the Virgin Mary to tell her that she has been divinely impregnated and will bear the Christ child. Underneath the painting on its original frame are words in Latin from St. Luke's Gospel 1:35 "The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the Highest shall overshadow thee."[citation needed] The subject of the Annunciation is common in Christian art and has been depicted by many artists, in multiple formats, and in different time periods. In addition to the Cestello Annunciation, Botticelli also painted a 1485 Annunciation now in the Metropolitan Museum of Art and a 1495-1500 version now housed in the Kelvingrove Art Gallery and Museum.. 
Portrait of Sebastián de Morra. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Portrait of Sebastián de Morra is a portrait by Diego Velázquez of Sebastián de Morra, a court dwarf and jester at the court of Philip IV of Spain. It was painted in around 1645 and is now in the Prado in Madrid.. The Portrait of Sebastián de Morra is a portrait by Diego Velázquez of Sebastián de Morra, a court dwarf and jester at the court of Philip IV of Spain. It was painted in around 1645 and is now in the Prado in Madrid. Velázquez portrays his whole body, sitting on the ground, wearing a rich cloak and with his short legs pointing forward in an inelegant position reminiscent of a marionette. He looks directly at the viewer, motionless, making no hand gestures, leading one critic to suggest that the painting represents a denunciation of the court's treatment of de Morra and other dwarfs. While Velázquez's naturalistic and charitable depictions of the invalids and dwarfs maintained by the court strongly suggests he, as court painter, felt some empathy with their situation, the painter's opinions are not known in any documented fashion.. 
Rejtan, or the Fall of Poland. Author Name: Jan Matejko. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/History_painting. . Rejtan, or the Fall of Poland (Polish: Rejtan. Upadek Polski) is an oil painting by the Polish artist Jan Matejko, finished in 1866, depicting the protest of Tadeusz Rejtan (lower right) against the First Partition of Poland during the Partition Sejm of 1773. Both a depiction of a historical moment, and an allegory for the surrounding period of Polish history, the painting is one of Matejko's most famous works, and an iconic picture of an emotional protest.. Rejtan, or the Fall of Poland (Polish: Rejtan. Upadek Polski) is an oil painting by the Polish artist Jan Matejko, finished in 1866, depicting the protest of Tadeusz Rejtan (lower right) against the First Partition of Poland during the Partition Sejm of 1773. Both a depiction of a historical moment, and an allegory for the surrounding period of Polish history, the painting is one of Matejko's most famous works, and an iconic picture of an emotional protest.. 
Frances Elizabeth Willard. Author Name: Lorado Taft. . . Frances Elizabeth Willard is a public artwork designed by American artist Lorado Taft, located in the rotunda of the Indiana State House, in Indianapolis, Indiana, USA. It is a bronze plaque, given by the Women's Christian Temperance Union, commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of Frances Elizabeth Willard's election as President of the WCTU.. Frances Elizabeth Willard is a public artwork designed by American artist Lorado Taft, located in the rotunda of the Indiana State House, in Indianapolis, Indiana, USA. It is a bronze plaque, given by the Women's Christian Temperance Union, commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of Frances Elizabeth Willard's election as President of the WCTU.. 
Idle Woman. Author Name: Hernandez, Daniel. . . Idle Woman (Spanish: La Perezosa) is a genre painting completed in oil on canvas by Peruvian painter Daniel Hernández Morillo in 1906. This 70-by-105-centimetre (28 by 41 in) work is held in the Museo de Arte de Lima, in Lima, Peru.. Idle Woman (Spanish: La Perezosa) is a genre painting completed in oil on canvas by Peruvian painter Daniel Hernández Morillo in 1906. This 70-by-105-centimetre (28 by 41 in) work is held in the Museo de Arte de Lima, in Lima, Peru.. 
The Four Seasons. Author Name: Francesco Sozzi. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Four Seasons (Le Quattro Stagioni it) is a cycle of four frescoes by Francesco Sozzi in the Palazzo Isnello, Palermo, Italy.. The Four Seasons (Le Quattro Stagioni it) is a cycle of four frescoes by Francesco Sozzi in the Palazzo Isnello, Palermo, Italy.. 
The Sun Vow. Author Name: Hermon Atkins MacNeil. . . The Sun Vow is an 1899 bronze sculpture by American artist Hermon Atkins MacNeil. It was cast in 1919 and measures 72 inches (180 cm) x 32.5 inches (83 cm) x 54 inches (140 cm). The sculpture is part of the Metropolitan Museum of Art's collection.. The Sun Vow is an 1899 bronze sculpture by American artist Hermon Atkins MacNeil. It was cast in 1919 and measures 72 inches (180 cm) x 32.5 inches (83 cm) x 54 inches (140 cm). The sculpture is part of the Metropolitan Museum of Art's collection.. 
Morte e Vita. Author Name: Gustav Klimt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Art_Nouveau. . Death and Life (Italian: Morte e Vita) is an oil on canvas painting by Austrian symbolist painter, Gustav Klimt whose primary subject was the female body. His paintings, murals, and sketches are marked by a sensual eroticism, which is especially apparent in his pencil drawings. The painting was started in 1908 and completed in 1916. It is created in an Art Nouveau (Modern) style by use of allegorical painting genre during Golden phase. The painting measures 178 by 198 centimeters and is now housed at the Leopold Museum in Vienna.. Death and Life (Italian: Morte e Vita) is an oil on canvas painting by Austrian symbolist painter, Gustav Klimt whose primary subject was the female body. His paintings, murals, and sketches are marked by a sensual eroticism, which is especially apparent in his pencil drawings. The painting was started in 1908 and completed in 1916. It is created in an Art Nouveau (Modern) style by use of allegorical painting genre during Golden phase. The painting measures 178 by 198 centimeters and is now housed at the Leopold Museum in Vienna.. 
The Fourth Sign. Author Name: Tony Smith. . . The Fourth Sign is a public artwork by the American artist Tony Smith situated on the lawn outside the Art Building at the University of Hawaiʻi at Mānoa, in Honolulu, Hawaii. The large sculpture is fabricated in steel, painted black, and signifies the fourth Zodiac sign, which is Cancer (a crab). The sculpture was commissioned by the Hawaii State Foundation on Culture and the Arts in accordance with the Art in State Buildings Law. Since its installation, many have seen in its shape as a reference to the legs and claws of a crab.. The Fourth Sign is a public artwork by the American artist Tony Smith situated on the lawn outside the Art Building at the University of Hawaiʻi at Mānoa, in Honolulu, Hawaii. The large sculpture is fabricated in steel, painted black, and signifies the fourth Zodiac sign, which is Cancer (a crab). The sculpture was commissioned by the Hawaii State Foundation on Culture and the Arts in accordance with the Art in State Buildings Law. Since its installation, many have seen in its shape as a reference to the legs and claws of a crab.. 
Self-portrait. Author Name: Titian. . . Self-Portrait is a c.1550-62 self-portrait by Titian.. Self-Portrait is a c.1550-62 self-portrait by Titian.. 
Scipio Africanus Freeing Massiva. Author Name: Giovanni Battista Tiepolo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Rococo. . Scipio Africanus Freeing Massiva is a painting depicting a scene from ancient Roman history by the Venetian artist Giovanni Battista Tiepolo.. Scipio Africanus Freeing Massiva is a painting depicting a scene from ancient Roman history by the Venetian artist Giovanni Battista Tiepolo.. 
Vattenfall i Småland. Author Name: Larson, Marcus. . . Vattenfall i Småland (English:Waterfall in Småland) is a 19th-century oil painting by Swedish painter Marcus Larson. Painted in 1856, it has been characterized as a typical example of the Düsseldorf school of painting.. Vattenfall i Småland (English:Waterfall in Småland) is a 19th-century oil painting by Swedish painter Marcus Larson. Painted in 1856, it has been characterized as a typical example of the Düsseldorf school of painting.. 
La Danse. Author Name: William-Adolphe Bouguereau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . La Danse (English: The Dance) is a painting created by nineteenth century French artist William-Adolphe Bouguereau in 1856. The painting is currently held in the Musée d'Orsay in Paris.. La Danse (English: The Dance) is a painting created by nineteenth century French artist William-Adolphe Bouguereau in 1856. The painting is currently held in the Musée d'Orsay in Paris.. 
Bentheim Castle. Author Name: Jacob van Ruisdael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_Golden_Age_painting. . View of Bentheim Castle (c. 1650s) is an oil on canvas painting of Burg Bentheim by the Dutch landscape painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Rijksmuseum.This scene is very similar to other paintings Ruisdael made in this period of Burg Bentheim and these often showed the castle on a high hill, though in reality it is only slightly elevated above the surrounding plain.. View of Bentheim Castle (c. 1650s) is an oil on canvas painting of Burg Bentheim by the Dutch landscape painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Rijksmuseum. This painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1911, who wrote; "21. THE CASTLE OF BENTHEIM. Sm. 16. The castle stands in the left middle distance on the rocky summit of a hill. To the right is a valley through which runs a road. In front are masses of rock between which flows a stream forming a little waterfall. On the left bank a shattered tree-trunk, beside the stump, lies diagonally across the stream. Farther back the stream widens ; on the left bank a shepherd drives his sheep forward. A fine picture, full of light. [Pendant to 319.] Signed in full to the right on a rock ; canvas, 27 inches by 21 inches. Engraved by W. Unger. Sales. G. G. Baron Taets van Amerongen, Amsterdam, July 3, 1805, No. 35 (750 florins, Josi). p. de Smeth van Alphen, Amsterdam, August i, 1810, No. 86 (740 florins, Coclers) ; pendant to No. 85. In the Rijksmuseum, Amsterdam, 1910 catalogue, No. 2080; it was there in 1835 (Sm., who valued it at £ 350)." This scene is very similar to other paintings Ruisdael made in this period of Burg Bentheim and these often showed the castle on a high hill, though in reality it is only slightly elevated above the surrounding plain. Little is known of Ruisdael's trip to Bentheim. It is speculated that he took a grand tour like many of his contemporaries did, but they were mostly interested in travel to Italy and headed southwards, not eastwards as Ruisdael had done. Sources are unclear about the reason the artist would travel to Bentheim to paint it. Bentheim is a small German town near the Dutch border about 26 kilometers beyond Ootmarsum, a town Ruisdael painted, and adjoins the town of Schüttorf, which Ruisdael sketched from across the river Vechte. In those days, people of Haarlem and Amsterdam were more likely to travel by foot or by trekschuit than by horse and buggy. Ruisdael's paintings also often show people walking along sandy tracks or traveling in boats, but only the cart tracks in his paintings show the traffic from other forms of transport. If he travelled eastwards by boat, then this could explain why he made so many sketches of water mills and sluices. There has been speculation that Ruisdael accompanied an expedition to acquire Bentheimer sandstone for building the new Amsterdam Town Hall, an ambitious project by mayor Nicolaes Tulp that employed many artists, including the Haarlem architect Jacob van Campen as master builder. Bentheimer sandstone was a popular product being used to build canal mansions along the new canals of Amsterdam. In Haarlem, the facade of the house of Pieter Teyler van der Hulst is cladded with Bentheimer sandstone, and though this was probably done later in the 1740s, it shows hows the popularity of this material overshadowed the use of Namur stone from Belgium, the material used earlier in the 17th-century for cladding of the Waag, Haarlem, which is a few doors down from Teyler's house. However it is also entirely plausible that Ruisdael was invited to the castle to paint it, but little is known of the art collection in the castle at that time. Ruisdael was even tempted to make a dramatic sweeping version of the castle that was copied almost in mirror image by Haarlem contemporary Nicolaes Berchem, called "his great friend" by Ruisdael biographer Arnold Houbraken. It is assumed that the artists travelled together, but no archival evidence beyond dated artworks survive which support this.. 
Horace Greeley. Author Name: Doyle, Alexander. . . Horace Greeley, also known as the Greeley Memorial, is an outdoor bronze sculpture of Horace Greeley by Alexander Doyle, located in Greeley Square Park in Manhattan, New York. The statue, cast in 1892 and dedicated on May 30, 1894, sits atop a Quincy granite pedestal. It contains the following inscription:. Horace Greeley, also known as the Greeley Memorial, is an outdoor bronze sculpture of Horace Greeley by Alexander Doyle, located in Greeley Square Park in Manhattan, New York. The statue, cast in 1892 and dedicated on May 30, 1894, sits atop a Quincy granite pedestal. It contains the following inscription:. 
The Ambassadors. Author Name: Hans Holbein the Younger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Northern_Renaissance. . The Ambassadors (1533) is a painting by Hans Holbein the Younger. It was created in the Tudor Period in the same year Elizabeth I was born. As well as being a double portrait, the painting contains a still life of several meticulously rendered objects, the meaning of which is the cause of much debate. It also incorporates a much-cited example of anamorphosis in painting. It is part of the collection at the National Gallery in London.. The Ambassadors (1533) is a painting by Hans Holbein the Younger. It was created in the Tudor Period in the same year Elizabeth I was born. As well as being a double portrait, the painting contains a still life of several meticulously rendered objects, the meaning of which is the cause of much debate. It also incorporates a much-cited example of anamorphosis in painting. It is part of the collection at the National Gallery in London.. 
Massacre in Korea. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Massacre in Korea is a expressionistic painting completed on January 18, 1951, by Pablo Picasso which is seen as a criticism of American intervention in the Korean War. It depicts the 1950 Sinchon Massacre, a mass killing carried out in the county of Sinchon, South Hwanghae Province, North Korea. Although the actual perpetrators and causes of the murders in Sinchon are in question, Massacre in Korea appears to depict them as civilians being killed by anti-communist forces. The art critic Kirsten Hoving Keen says that it is "inspired by reports of American atrocities" and considers it one of Picasso's communist works. Picasso's work is drawn from Francisco Goya's painting The Third of May 1808, which shows Napoleon's soldiers executing Spanish civilians under the orders of Joachim Murat. It. Massacre in Korea is a expressionistic painting completed on January 18, 1951, by Pablo Picasso which is seen as a criticism of American intervention in the Korean War. It depicts the 1950 Sinchon Massacre, a mass killing carried out in the county of Sinchon, South Hwanghae Province, North Korea. Although the actual perpetrators and causes of the murders in Sinchon are in question, Massacre in Korea appears to depict them as civilians being killed by anti-communist forces. The art critic Kirsten Hoving Keen says that it is "inspired by reports of American atrocities" and considers it one of Picasso's communist works. Picasso's work is drawn from Francisco Goya's painting The Third of May 1808, which shows Napoleon's soldiers executing Spanish civilians under the orders of Joachim Murat. It stands in the same iconographic tradition of an earlier work modeled after Goya, Édouard Manet's series of five paintings depicting the execution of Emperor Maximilian, completed between 1867 and 1869. As with Goya's The Third of May 1808, Picasso's painting is marked by a bifurcated composition, divided into two distinct parts. To the left, a group of naked women and children are seen situated at the foot of a mass grave. A number of heavily armed "knights" stand to the right, also naked, but equipped with "gigantic limbs and hard muscles similar to those of prehistoric giants." The firing squad is rigidly poised as in Goya. In Picasso's representation, however, the group is manifestly helter-skelter – as was often apparent in his portrayals of armored soldiers in drawings and lithographs – which may be taken to indicate an attitude of mockery of the idiocy of war. Their helmets are misshapen, and their weaponry is a mishmash amalgamation of the instruments of aggression from the medieval period to the modern era; not quite guns or lances, they perhaps most resemble candlesticks. What is more, none of the soldiers have penises. This representational feature is highlighted by the pregnant state of the women on the left side of the panel. Many viewers have interpreted that the soldiers, in their capacity as destroyers of life, have substituted guns for their penises, thereby castrating themselves and depriving the world of the next generation of human life. During this period, Picasso is believed to have been moving away from his earlier communist ideology.[citation needed] Along with Guernica, The Charnel House (1944–45), War and Peace (1952), and Rape of the Sabine Women (1962–63), this is one of Picasso's works that he composed to depict the politics of his time. At 43 inches (1.1 m) by 82 inches (2.1 m), the work is smaller than his Guernica. However, it bears a conceptional resemblance to that painting as well as an expressive vehemence.. 
American Legion Soldier. Author Name: Wolter, Adolph. . . American Legion Soldier is a public artwork by German-born American artist Adolph Wolter, located at the American Legion building on K Street, N.W. in Washington, D.C., United States. "American Legion Soldier" was surveyed as part of the Smithsonian's Save Outdoor Sculpture! program in 1993.. American Legion Soldier is a public artwork by German-born American artist Adolph Wolter, located at the American Legion building on K Street, N.W. in Washington, D.C., United States. "American Legion Soldier" was surveyed as part of the Smithsonian's Save Outdoor Sculpture! program in 1993.. 
Portrait of Federico II Gonzaga. Author Name: Titian. . . Portrait of Federico II Gonzaga (c. 1529) is a painting by Titian, who signed it Ticianus f.. Today in the Museo del Prado, Madrid, it portrays Federico II, Duke of Mantua who married in 1529; the portrait may have been commissioned for the occasion. The dog is an allegory of faithfulness.The work is mentioned in a 1666 inventory of the Royal Alcázar of Madrid, coming from the collection of Marquess de Leganés. Previous owners included Charles I of England, who purchased many paintings from the Gonzaga collection.. Portrait of Federico II Gonzaga (c. 1529) is a painting by Titian, who signed it Ticianus f.. Today in the Museo del Prado, Madrid, it portrays Federico II, Duke of Mantua who married in 1529; the portrait may have been commissioned for the occasion. The dog is an allegory of faithfulness. The work is mentioned in a 1666 inventory of the Royal Alcázar of Madrid, coming from the collection of Marquess de Leganés. Previous owners included Charles I of England, who purchased many paintings from the Gonzaga collection.. 
The Enigma of the Hour. Author Name: Giorgio de Chirico. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Metaphysical_art. . The Enigma of the Hour (1911) is a painting by the Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio de Chirico. He created the work during his early period, when he focused on metaphysical depictions of town squares and other urban environments.The Enigma depicts an urban scene with the classical architecture and angular lighting that are de Chirico's hallmarks. Several figures around the scene have vague features, to give the sense that they are absent. Above the scene is a large clock that reads six minutes to three.. The Enigma of the Hour (1911) is a painting by the Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio de Chirico. He created the work during his early period, when he focused on metaphysical depictions of town squares and other urban environments. The Enigma depicts an urban scene with the classical architecture and angular lighting that are de Chirico's hallmarks. Several figures around the scene have vague features, to give the sense that they are absent. Above the scene is a large clock that reads six minutes to three.. 
Bust of Camilla Barbadoni. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Bust of Camilla Barbadoni is a marble sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini.. The Bust of Camilla Barbadoni is a marble sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini.. 
Bust of Pope Paul V. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini made two Busts of Pope Paul V. The first is currently in the Galleria Borghese in Rome. 1618 is the commonly accepted date for the portrait of the pope.  A second bust has, as of 2015, been acquired by the Getty Museum in Los Angeles.  It was created by Bernini 1621, shortly after the death of Paul V, and commissioned by his nephew, Cardinal Scipione Borghese. A bronze version of this sculpture exists in the Statens Museum for Kunst, Copenhagen, Denmark.. The Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini made two Busts of Pope Paul V. The first is currently in the Galleria Borghese in Rome. 1618 is the commonly accepted date for the portrait of the pope. A second bust has, as of 2015, been acquired by the Getty Museum in Los Angeles. It was created by Bernini 1621, shortly after the death of Paul V, and commissioned by his nephew, Cardinal Scipione Borghese. A bronze version of this sculpture exists in the Statens Museum for Kunst, Copenhagen, Denmark.. 
The Triumph of Bacchus. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Triumph of Bacchus (Greek title is Ο Θρίαμβος του Βάκχου) is a 1628 painting by Diego Velázquez, now in the Museo del Prado, in Madrid. The painting shows Bacchus surrounded by drunks. It is popularly known as Los borrachos or The Drinkers (politely, also The Drunks).Velázquez painted it between 1626 and 1628, after arriving in Madrid from Seville and just before his voyage to Italy. In Madrid, Velázquez was able to study the king's collection of Italian paintings and was no doubt struck by the nudity in many paintings as well as the treatment of mythological subjects.. The Triumph of Bacchus (Greek title is Ο Θρίαμβος του Βάκχου) is a 1628 painting by Diego Velázquez, now in the Museo del Prado, in Madrid. The painting shows Bacchus surrounded by drunks. It is popularly known as Los borrachos or The Drinkers (politely, also The Drunks). Velázquez painted it between 1626 and 1628, after arriving in Madrid from Seville and just before his voyage to Italy. In Madrid, Velázquez was able to study the king's collection of Italian paintings and was no doubt struck by the nudity in many paintings as well as the treatment of mythological subjects. The work was painted for Philip IV, who paid Velázquez 100 ducats for it.. 
Trio. Author Name: Sugarman, George. . . Trio is a public art work by artist George Sugarman on permanent display at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin and the Empire State Plaza in Albany, New York. The aluminum sculpture is painted bright yellow and consists of a series of abstract loops.. Trio is a public art work by artist George Sugarman on permanent display at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin and the Empire State Plaza in Albany, New York. The aluminum sculpture is painted bright yellow and consists of a series of abstract loops.. 
Aldobrandini Madonna. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Aldobrandini Madonna is a painting from about 1509–1510 oil by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael. The picture is of the Virgin Mother, Christ child and infant John the Baptist, one of many paintings by Raphael with this trio. It is from early in his third, or Roman period, where distinctive changes are seen from his Umbrian or Florentine period in style, use of colour, and introduction of more natural subjects and settings.. The Aldobrandini Madonna is a painting from about 1509–1510 oil by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael. The picture is of the Virgin Mother, Christ child and infant John the Baptist, one of many paintings by Raphael with this trio. It is from early in his third, or Roman period, where distinctive changes are seen from his Umbrian or Florentine period in style, use of colour, and introduction of more natural subjects and settings. Owned for centuries by the aristocratic Roman Aldobrandini family, it has been part of the collection of the National Gallery in London since 1865. It was sold to the National Gallery in 1865 after about five decades of ownership by the Lord and Lady Garvagh, and is still sometimes known as the Garvagh Madonna.. 
Moses Breaking the Tablets of the Law. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Moses Breaking the Tablets of the Law is a 1659 painting by the Dutch artist Rembrandt. It is now in the Gemäldegalerie, Berlin.. Moses Breaking the Tablets of the Law is a 1659 painting by the Dutch artist Rembrandt. It is now in the Gemäldegalerie, Berlin.. 
The American Volunteer. Author Name: Conrads, Carl. . . The American Volunteer – also known as The American Soldier – is a colossal granite statue that crowns the U.S. Soldier Monument and forms the centerpiece of Antietam National Cemetery in Sharpsburg, Maryland. The monument is also known as the Private Soldier Monument.. The American Volunteer – also known as The American Soldier – is a colossal granite statue that crowns the U.S. Soldier Monument and forms the centerpiece of Antietam National Cemetery in Sharpsburg, Maryland. The monument is also known as the Private Soldier Monument. The monument was designed by sculptor Carl Conrads and architect George Keller of the New England Granite Works of Hartford, Connecticut. The statue, described as "the largest work of its kind in the country", was prominently exhibited at the 1876 Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. It was transported to Sharpsburg, installed atop the monument, and dedicated at the National Cemetery in 1880. The total cost of the monument was over US$32,000. The statue's nickname is "Old Simon".. 
Drunkenness of Noah. Author Name: Giovanni Bellini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . Drunkenness of Noah is a painting by the Italian artist Giovanni Bellini. It was Finished about 1515. it is kept in the Museum of Fine Arts and Archeology of Besançon, France.. Drunkenness of Noah is a painting by the Italian artist Giovanni Bellini. It was Finished about 1515. it is kept in the Museum of Fine Arts and Archeology of Besançon, France.. 
View from Stalheim. Author Name: Johan Christian Dahl. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Norwegian_romantic_nationalism. . View from Stalheim (Norwegian: Fra Stalheim) is an 1842 oil painting by J. C. Dahl of the mountainous view from Stalheim, Voss, Hordaland. It is a major work of Romantic nationalism and has become a national icon. It is regarded as one of Dahl's best works.. View from Stalheim (Norwegian: Fra Stalheim) is an 1842 oil painting by J. C. Dahl of the mountainous view from Stalheim, Voss, Hordaland. It is a major work of Romantic nationalism and has become a national icon. It is regarded as one of Dahl's best works.. 
Four Darks in Red. Author Name: Mark Rothko. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . Four Darks in Red shows Mark Rothko's often used axis of black, brown and red, which is in a number of his easel paintings and in the mural projects for the Seagram Building and the Rothko Chapel in Houston, Texas.. Four Darks in Red shows Mark Rothko's often used axis of black, brown and red, which is in a number of his easel paintings and in the mural projects for the Seagram Building and the Rothko Chapel in Houston, Texas. Rothko's work brought movement to the flat two-dimensional canvas. The canvas remains stationary but as the observer stares at the areas of color, they seem to move and vibrate. The perception of motion is an optical illusion because it is happening in the eyes and mind of the observer, not on the canvas itself. This motion imparts a pleasant feeling, much like light meditation might. The red field against which the four dark forms float is first tinged with crimson, then with orange, then with brown. The lozenge shapes complement these shifts. The one closest to the lower edge of the canvas is a slightly blackened crimson. Moving vertically upwards, the next is more violet. The large area of black is first shaded with blue and then with green. And finally, squeezed in at the top of the canvas there is a thin strip of a rather nondescript, umberish brown which seems to be holding all the rest in place. This is characteristic of Rothko's signature "multiform" style of blurred, lozenge shapes, moving horizontally across the surface of the canvas. Its meaning is difficult to comprehend, however it could be that, like Jackson Pollock, another Abstract Expressionist and contemporary of Rothko, the piece has no "meaning" in the normal sense of the word, but rather the painting is itself its own meaning. These paintings are not meant to be dissected and understood with the intellect, but focused on and joined with, enjoyed in a visual experience that can capture one's usually erratic attention and thereby uplift one's mood.. 
Der Rote Turm in Halle. Author Name: Ernst Ludwig Kirchner. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Expressionism. . The Red Tower in Halle (German: Der Rote Turm in Halle) is a 1915 oil on canvas painting by a German expressionist painter and printmaker Ernst Ludwig Kirchner. It is now housed at Museum Folkwang, Essen.. The Red Tower in Halle (German: Der Rote Turm in Halle) is a 1915 oil on canvas painting by a German expressionist painter and printmaker Ernst Ludwig Kirchner. It is now housed at Museum Folkwang, Essen.. 
Monument of Frédéric Chopin. Author Name: Goslawski, Jozef. . . The Frédéric Chopin monument at Żelazowa Wola is a notable Żelazowa Wola statue, located in a park adjacent to Chopin's birth house.. The Frédéric Chopin monument at Żelazowa Wola is a notable Żelazowa Wola statue, located in a park adjacent to Chopin's birth house.. 
Dance in the Country. Author Name: Pierre-Auguste Renoir. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Dance in the Country (French: Danse à la campagne) is an 1883 oil painting by French artist Pierre-Auguste Renoir. It is currently kept at the Musée d'Orsay in Paris.. Dance in the Country (French: Danse à la campagne) is an 1883 oil painting by French artist Pierre-Auguste Renoir. It is currently kept at the Musée d'Orsay in Paris.. 
Judith and the Head of Holofernes. Author Name: Gustav Klimt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Art_Nouveau. . Judith and the Head of Holofernes (also known as Judith I)  is an oil painting by Gustav Klimt created in 1901. It depicts the biblical character of Judith holding the severed head of Holofernes.. Judith and the Head of Holofernes (also known as Judith I) is an oil painting by Gustav Klimt created in 1901. It depicts the biblical character of Judith holding the severed head of Holofernes.. 
Cafe Gurzuf. Author Name: Alexander Nikolayevich Samokhvalov. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Cafe Gurzuf (Russian: Кафе Гурзуф) is a painting by Alexander Nikolayevich Samokhvalov (Russian: Алекса́ндр Никола́евич Самохва́лов) (1894-1971), well-known Russian painter, watercolorists, graphic artist, illustrator, and art teacher, Honored Arts Worker of the RSFSR, lived and worked in Leningrad, regarded as one of the founder and brightest representatives of the Socialist realism art. In the painting artist has depicted a view of summer cafe in Gurzuf, Crimea, in the middle of the 1950s.. Cafe Gurzuf (Russian: Кафе Гурзуф) is a painting by Alexander Nikolayevich Samokhvalov (Russian: Алекса́ндр Никола́евич Самохва́лов) (1894-1971), well-known Russian painter, watercolorists, graphic artist, illustrator, and art teacher, Honored Arts Worker of the RSFSR, lived and worked in Leningrad, regarded as one of the founder and brightest representatives of the Socialist realism art. In the painting artist has depicted a view of summer cafe in Gurzuf, Crimea, in the middle of the 1950s.. 
The Ballet Class. Author Name: Edgar Degas. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Ballet Class (French: La Classe de danse) is a painting by Edgar Degas, painted between 1871 and 1874. It is in the collection of the Musée d'Orsay, Paris, France. It was commissioned by Jean-Baptiste Faure. Degas temporarily abandoned work on this painting, and delivered a work of a similar name to Faure.The painting depicts dancers at the end of a lesson under ballet master Jules Perrot. Perrot and Degas were friends, and Perrot allowed Degas access to dance classes.. The Ballet Class (French: La Classe de danse) is a painting by Edgar Degas, painted between 1871 and 1874. It is in the collection of the Musée d'Orsay, Paris, France. It was commissioned by Jean-Baptiste Faure. Degas temporarily abandoned work on this painting, and delivered a work of a similar name to Faure. The painting depicts dancers at the end of a lesson under ballet master Jules Perrot. Perrot and Degas were friends, and Perrot allowed Degas access to dance classes.. 
The Fire in the Borgo. Author Name: Giulio Romano. . . The Fire in the Borgo is a painting by the workshop of the Italian renaissance artist Raphael. Though it is assumed that Raphael did make the designs for the complex composition, the fresco was most likely painted by his assistant Giulio Romano. The painting was part of Raphael's commission to decorate the rooms that are now known as the Stanze di Raffaello, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. It is located in the room that was named after it, the Stanza dell'incendio del Borgo ("The Room of the Fire in the Borgo").. The Fire in the Borgo is a painting by the workshop of the Italian renaissance artist Raphael. Though it is assumed that Raphael did make the designs for the complex composition, the fresco was most likely painted by his assistant Giulio Romano. The painting was part of Raphael's commission to decorate the rooms that are now known as the Stanze di Raffaello, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. It is located in the room that was named after it, the Stanza dell'incendio del Borgo ("The Room of the Fire in the Borgo").. 
Juan Martínez Montañés. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Portrait of Juan Martínez Montañés is an unfinished 1636 portrait of the sculptor Juan Martínez Montañés by Diego Velázquez. It is now at the Prado. It was painted while its subject called on Velazquez during a trip to Madrid between June 1635 and January 1636. The trip was to make a clay bust of Philip IV of Spain as the modello for the Florentine sculptor Pietro Tacca's bronze equestrian statue of Philip (the statue now on plaza de Oriente in Madrid), which is what he is shown doing in the portrait, shaping the clay with a stick (though the bust itself is only in outline, since the painting is unfinished). The 36-year-old Velázquez's relationship with the 67-year-old Montañés was long-standing - Velázquez's tutor Francisco Pacheco added painted colour to several of Montañés's major s. The Portrait of Juan Martínez Montañés is an unfinished 1636 portrait of the sculptor Juan Martínez Montañés by Diego Velázquez. It is now at the Prado. It was painted while its subject called on Velazquez during a trip to Madrid between June 1635 and January 1636. The trip was to make a clay bust of Philip IV of Spain as the modello for the Florentine sculptor Pietro Tacca's bronze equestrian statue of Philip (the statue now on plaza de Oriente in Madrid), which is what he is shown doing in the portrait, shaping the clay with a stick (though the bust itself is only in outline, since the painting is unfinished). The 36-year-old Velázquez's relationship with the 67-year-old Montañés was long-standing - Velázquez's tutor Francisco Pacheco added painted colour to several of Montañés's major sculptures. Most of the painter's attention is on the face and hands, though he took great care over the rest of the portrait, highlighting the white cuffs against the otherwise entirely black costume with ease and fluidity.. 
Sculpture with a "D". Author Name: Sam Gilliam. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Washington_Color_School. . Sculpture with a "D" is an abstract sculpture by Sam Gilliam.It is located at Davis (MBTA station), Cambridge, Massachusetts. Painted aluminum panels 44 feet long are hung above the platform.. Sculpture with a "D" is an abstract sculpture by Sam Gilliam. It is located at Davis (MBTA station), Cambridge, Massachusetts. Painted aluminum panels 44 feet long are hung above the platform.. 
The Lute Player. Author Name: Frans Hals. . . The Lute Player refers to a painting from 1623 or 1624 now in the Louvre by the Haarlem painter Frans Hals, showing a smiling actor wearing a jester's costume and playing a lute.This painting was documented by Wilhelm von Bode in 1883, Ernst Wilhelm Moes in 1909 and Hofstede de Groot in 1910, who wrote "98. A FOOL WITH A MANDOLINE. B. 45; M. 216.- Half-length. A man turned half-right, in a red costume trimmed with yellow. He has long hair, and wears a red and yellow cap. His head is seen in full face ; he looks up to the left. With his right hand he touches the strings of a mandoline ; his left hand grasps the neck. Very freely handled. Especially good are the various contrasting flesh-tones, the red and yellow of the costume, and the reflections in the eyes. [Compare 95.] Signed in the ri. The Lute Player refers to a painting from 1623 or 1624 now in the Louvre by the Haarlem painter Frans Hals, showing a smiling actor wearing a jester's costume and playing a lute. This painting was documented by Wilhelm von Bode in 1883, Ernst Wilhelm Moes in 1909 and Hofstede de Groot in 1910, who wrote "98. A FOOL WITH A MANDOLINE. B. 45; M. 216.- Half-length. A man turned half-right, in a red costume trimmed with yellow. He has long hair, and wears a red and yellow cap. His head is seen in full face ; he looks up to the left. With his right hand he touches the strings of a mandoline ; his left hand grasps the neck. Very freely handled. Especially good are the various contrasting flesh-tones, the red and yellow of the costume, and the reflections in the eyes. [Compare 95.] Signed in the right at top, F. H. ; canvas, about 29 inches by 24 inches. A copy (B. 16, and see M. 216) is in the Rijksmuseum, Amsterdam, 1907 catalogue, No. 1093 ; it measures 26 inches by 24 inches, having rather less at the foot than the original. In the collection of Baron Gustave de Rothschild, Paris.." The theme of a lute player painted at half length originated in Italy, and the Dutch painter Dirck van Baburen first introduced this theme in the Northern Netherlands with his lute player of 1622. Baburen's player is pointing his lute towards the viewer with his mouth open in song. Hals' player is looking up and smiling naturally, as if he is playing with a singer or another musician not in view. This painting is a good example of Hals' "rough style" of painting with loose brush strokes. A period copy now in the collection of the Rijksmuseum has been dated before 1626 based on an engraving, and it has been attributed variously to Hals, his brother Dirk, and Judith Leyster. Two other paintings of lute players by Hals are: Hals was not the only painter to be influenced by Baburen. Hendrik ter Brugghen painted several lute players in the 1620s, and a few of them seem to merge aspects of Baburen and Hals, though his later version seems to follow Hals more closely.. 
Frederik V on Horseback. Author Name: Jacques-François-Joseph Saly. . . Frederik V on Horseback is a sculpture in Amalienborg Square, Copenhagen, framed by the four symmetrical wings of the Amalienborg palace. The statue represents Frederick V of Denmark in classic attire, crowned with laurels and with his hand outstretched, holding a baton. Commissioned by the Danish East India Company, it was designed in Neoclassical style by Jacques Saly in 1768 and was cast in bronze in 1771. The apparent dignity and tranquility in the depiction of the king is typical of Danish representations of monarchs. It is considered to be one of the notable equestrian monuments of its time.. Frederik V on Horseback is a sculpture in Amalienborg Square, Copenhagen, framed by the four symmetrical wings of the Amalienborg palace. The statue represents Frederick V of Denmark in classic attire, crowned with laurels and with his hand outstretched, holding a baton. Commissioned by the Danish East India Company, it was designed in Neoclassical style by Jacques Saly in 1768 and was cast in bronze in 1771. The apparent dignity and tranquility in the depiction of the king is typical of Danish representations of monarchs. It is considered to be one of the notable equestrian monuments of its time.. 
Leningradin ja Turun ystävyyden patsas. Author Name: Louhisto, Antti. . . The statue of friendship between Leningrad and Turku (Finnish Leningradin ja Turun ystävyyden patsas, Swedish Staty över vänskapen mellan Leningrad och Åbo) is a statue located in Puolalanpuisto park in Turku, Finland. It was erected 1967-1968 and revealed on May 19, 1969. The statue was erected in honour of the 15th town twinning anniversary between Turku and Leningrad (now Saint Petersburg).The statue depicts four figures, three men and a woman, greeting and embracing each other.. The statue of friendship between Leningrad and Turku (Finnish Leningradin ja Turun ystävyyden patsas, Swedish Staty över vänskapen mellan Leningrad och Åbo) is a statue located in Puolalanpuisto park in Turku, Finland. It was erected 1967-1968 and revealed on May 19, 1969. The statue was erected in honour of the 15th town twinning anniversary between Turku and Leningrad (now Saint Petersburg). The statue depicts four figures, three men and a woman, greeting and embracing each other. Leningradin ja Turun ystävyyden patsas is made of bronze and stands 2.5 metres high. The base is made of red granite, mined from Vehmaa, and stands half a metre high.. 
The Pioneer Mother Memorial. Author Name: Avard Fairbanks. . . The Pioneer Mother Memorial, also known as Pioneer Mother and Pioneer Mothers, is a 1928 bronze sculpture by American artist Avard Fairbanks, installed at Esther Short Park in Vancouver, Washington, in the United States. The memorial depicts a mother and three children, and commemorates pioneer mothers who settled in the Pacific Northwest. The main female figure may depict Esther Short, one of the first U.S. citizens to arrive in Fort Vancouver. Commissioned by Vancouver banker Edward Crawford and his wife Ida for $10,000, it is one of the city's oldest works of public art, acquired in 1928 and unveiled in 1929. The sculpture was renovated around the start of the 21st century and is maintained by the City of Vancouver's Parks & Recreation department.. The Pioneer Mother Memorial, also known as Pioneer Mother and Pioneer Mothers, is a 1928 bronze sculpture by American artist Avard Fairbanks, installed at Esther Short Park in Vancouver, Washington, in the United States. The memorial depicts a mother and three children, and commemorates pioneer mothers who settled in the Pacific Northwest. The main female figure may depict Esther Short, one of the first U.S. citizens to arrive in Fort Vancouver. Commissioned by Vancouver banker Edward Crawford and his wife Ida for $10,000, it is one of the city's oldest works of public art, acquired in 1928 and unveiled in 1929. The sculpture was renovated around the start of the 21st century and is maintained by the City of Vancouver's Parks & Recreation department.. 
Allow Me. Author Name: John Seward Johnson II. . . Allow Me, also known as Umbrella Man, is an iconic 1983 bronze sculpture by John Seward Johnson II, located in Pioneer Courthouse Square in Portland, Oregon, United States. The sculpture, one of seven Allow Me casts, was donated anonymously to the City of Portland in 1984 for display in the Square. It depicts a life-sized man dressed in a business suit, hailing a cab and holding an umbrella. Constructed from bronze, aluminum and stainless steel, the sculpture stands six feet, ten inches tall and weighs 460 pounds. The sculpture is one of many works of art generated by the city's Percent for Art program, and is considered part of the City of Portland and Multnomah County Public Art Collection courtesy of the Regional Arts & Culture Council.. Allow Me, also known as Umbrella Man, is an iconic 1983 bronze sculpture by John Seward Johnson II, located in Pioneer Courthouse Square in Portland, Oregon, United States. The sculpture, one of seven Allow Me casts, was donated anonymously to the City of Portland in 1984 for display in the Square. It depicts a life-sized man dressed in a business suit, hailing a cab and holding an umbrella. Constructed from bronze, aluminum and stainless steel, the sculpture stands six feet, ten inches tall and weighs 460 pounds. The sculpture is one of many works of art generated by the city's Percent for Art program, and is considered part of the City of Portland and Multnomah County Public Art Collection courtesy of the Regional Arts & Culture Council. After ten years, in 1995, the sculpture was removed from its pedestal and transferred to California for its first major restoration. To maintain its shine, Allow Me receives cold wax coatings every year. It is a popular tourist attraction and local landmark which serves as a reference point for gatherings, or political rallies. Allow Me has received a positive reception and is renowned for its realistic appearance; the 'Umbrella Man' has been called the "most photographed man in Portland", and serves as a symbol of the city and its residents.. 
Idle Hours. Author Name: William Merritt Chase. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Idle Hours is an oil on canvas landscape painting by the American Impressionist painter William Merritt Chase. Completed in 1894, it measures 90.2 by 64.8 centimeters, and is now housed at the Amon Carter Museum of American Art, Fort Worth. It is one of many paintings by Chase that depicted his wife and children at ease.. Idle Hours is an oil on canvas landscape painting by the American Impressionist painter William Merritt Chase. Completed in 1894, it measures 90.2 by 64.8 centimeters, and is now housed at the Amon Carter Museum of American Art, Fort Worth. It is one of many paintings by Chase that depicted his wife and children at ease.. 
Dawnsong. Author Name: Brose Partington. . . Dawnsong is a public artwork by American artist Brose Partington, located at Indianapolis Art Center in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. "Dawnsong" was installed as part of the Center's ARTSPARK initiative.. Dawnsong is a public artwork by American artist Brose Partington, located at Indianapolis Art Center in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. "Dawnsong" was installed as part of the Center's ARTSPARK initiative.. 
On the Threshold of Liberty. Author Name: René Magritte. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Surrealism. . On the Threshold of Liberty (in French, Au seuil de la liberté) refers to two oil on canvas paintings by the Belgian surrealist René Magritte. The work depicts a large room with the walls paneled with different scenes or windows. Each panel reveals a different subject: a sky, fire, wood, a forest, the front of a building, an ornamental pattern, a female torso and a strange metallic texture featuring spherical bells (a common Magritte element). Inside the room is a cannon.. On the Threshold of Liberty (in French, Au seuil de la liberté) refers to two oil on canvas paintings by the Belgian surrealist René Magritte. The work depicts a large room with the walls paneled with different scenes or windows. Each panel reveals a different subject: a sky, fire, wood, a forest, the front of a building, an ornamental pattern, a female torso and a strange metallic texture featuring spherical bells (a common Magritte element). Inside the room is a cannon. The original painting was completed in 1929 and is currently part of the collection at the Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen in Rotterdam. A second version was commissioned in 1937 by Magritte patron Edward James. For this version, the orientation was changed from horizontal to vertical leading to an increase in the area of the room depicted. It is currently on display at the Art Institute of Chicago. In 1983 the American composer and trumpeter Mark Isham composed a piece of music titled after this painting. From 1996 through 2008, National Public Radio used Isham's composition as the background music for the annual Independence Day reading of the Declaration of Independence on the NPR program Morning Edition.. 
L'Absinthe. Author Name: Edgar Degas. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . L'Absinthe (English: The Absinthe Drinker or Glass of Absinthe) is a painting by Edgar Degas. Some original title translations are A sketch of a French Café, then Figures at Café, the title was finally changed in 1893 to L'Absinthe (the name the piece is known by today). It is now in the permanent collection of the Musée d'Orsay in Paris.. L'Absinthe (English: The Absinthe Drinker or Glass of Absinthe) is a painting by Edgar Degas. Some original title translations are A sketch of a French Café, then Figures at Café, the title was finally changed in 1893 to L'Absinthe (the name the piece is known by today). It is now in the permanent collection of the Musée d'Orsay in Paris.. 
Hip, Hip, Hurrah!. Author Name: P.S. Krøyer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Hip, Hip, Hurrah! (Danish: Hip, hip, hurra! Kunstnerfest på Skagen) is an oil-on-canvas painting from 1888 by Norwegian-Danish painter Peder Severin Krøyer.. Hip, Hip, Hurrah! (Danish: Hip, hip, hurra! Kunstnerfest på Skagen) is an oil-on-canvas painting from 1888 by Norwegian-Danish painter Peder Severin Krøyer.. 
Storm at Sea. Author Name: Pieter Bruegel the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_and_Flemish_Renaissance_painting. . Storm at Sea is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in c. 1569. It is currently held and exhibited at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna.. Storm at Sea is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in c. 1569. It is currently held and exhibited at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna.. 
Little Girl in a Blue Armchair. Author Name: Mary Cassatt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Little Girl in a Blue Armchair (French: Petite fille dans un fauteuil bleu) is an 1878 oil painting by the American painter, printmaker, pastelist, and connoisseur Mary Cassatt. It is in the collection of the National Gallery of Art, Washington D.C. Edgar Degas made some changes in the painting.. Little Girl in a Blue Armchair (French: Petite fille dans un fauteuil bleu) is an 1878 oil painting by the American painter, printmaker, pastelist, and connoisseur Mary Cassatt. It is in the collection of the National Gallery of Art, Washington D.C. Edgar Degas made some changes in the painting.. 
Memory. Author Name: Daniel Chester French. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/American_Renaissance. . Memory is an 1886–1887 (revised 1909) marble sculpture by American artist Daniel Chester French. The finished version measures 57.5 inches (146 cm) x 25 inches (64 cm) x 42.5 inches (108 cm) and is part of the Metropolitan Museum of Art's collection.. Memory is an 1886–1887 (revised 1909) marble sculpture by American artist Daniel Chester French. The finished version measures 57.5 inches (146 cm) x 25 inches (64 cm) x 42.5 inches (108 cm) and is part of the Metropolitan Museum of Art's collection.. 
The Spanish Singer. Author Name: Édouard Manet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Spanish Singer is an 1860 oil painting on canvas by the French painter Édouard Manet, conserved since 1949 at the Metropolitan Museum of Art of New York.Composed in Manet's studio, it employed a model and props which were later used for at least one other painting. This work, both realistic and exotic in its depiction of its subject, exhibits the influence of Spanish art, especially that of Diego Velázquez, on Manet's style. Manet, due to this painting, was accepted for the first time at the Salon of Paris in 1861, where he also exhibited a portrait of his parents.. The Spanish Singer is an 1860 oil painting on canvas by the French painter Édouard Manet, conserved since 1949 at the Metropolitan Museum of Art of New York. Composed in Manet's studio, it employed a model and props which were later used for at least one other painting. This work, both realistic and exotic in its depiction of its subject, exhibits the influence of Spanish art, especially that of Diego Velázquez, on Manet's style. Manet, due to this painting, was accepted for the first time at the Salon of Paris in 1861, where he also exhibited a portrait of his parents. The Spanish Singer received positive criticism at the time and won a decent mention. It was appreciated by French writer Charles Baudelaire, and by French journalist and literary critic Theophile Gautier, who praised the painting for its "very true color" and "vigorous brush". Manet consequently became the leader of the avant-garde movement and inspired a group of young artists, including Henri Fantin-Latour and Carolus-Duran, who decided to visit Manet's studio.. 
Portrait of Wally. Author Name: Egon Schiele. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Expressionism. . Portrait of Wally is a 1912 oil painting by Austrian painter Egon Schiele of Valerie "Wally" Neuzil, a woman he met in 1911 when she was 17 years old and who was a model for a number of Schiele's most striking paintings. The painting was obtained by Rudolf Leopold in 1954 and became part of the collection of the Leopold Museum when it was established by the Austrian government, purchasing 5,000 pieces that Leopold had owned. Near the end of a 1997-1998 exhibit of Schiele's work at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City, the painting's history was revealed in an article published in The New York Times. After the publication, the heirs of Lea Bondi Jaray, to whom the work had belonged before World War II, contacted the New York County District Attorney who issued a subpoena forbidding its. Portrait of Wally is a 1912 oil painting by Austrian painter Egon Schiele of Valerie "Wally" Neuzil, a woman he met in 1911 when she was 17 years old and who was a model for a number of Schiele's most striking paintings. The painting was obtained by Rudolf Leopold in 1954 and became part of the collection of the Leopold Museum when it was established by the Austrian government, purchasing 5,000 pieces that Leopold had owned. Near the end of a 1997-1998 exhibit of Schiele's work at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City, the painting's history was revealed in an article published in The New York Times. After the publication, the heirs of Lea Bondi Jaray, to whom the work had belonged before World War II, contacted the New York County District Attorney who issued a subpoena forbidding its return to Austria. The work was tied up in litigation for years by Bondi's heirs, who claimed that the painting was Nazi plunder and should have been returned to them. In July 2010, the Leopold Museum agreed to pay $19 million to Bondi's heirs under an agreement that would address all outstanding claims on the painting.. 
Tiger in a Tropical Storm. Author Name: Henri Rousseau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Naïve_art. . Tiger in a Tropical Storm or Surprised! (French Tigre dans une tempête tropicale or Surpris!) is an 1891 oil-on-canvas painting by Henri Rousseau. It was the first of the jungle paintings for which the artist is chiefly known. It shows a tiger, illuminated by a flash of lightning, preparing to pounce on its prey in the midst of a raging gale.. Tiger in a Tropical Storm or Surprised! (French Tigre dans une tempête tropicale or Surpris!) is an 1891 oil-on-canvas painting by Henri Rousseau. It was the first of the jungle paintings for which the artist is chiefly known. It shows a tiger, illuminated by a flash of lightning, preparing to pounce on its prey in the midst of a raging gale. Unable to have a painting accepted by the jury of the Académie de peinture et de sculpture, Rousseau exhibited Tiger in a Tropical Storm in 1891 under the title Surpris!, at the Salon des Indépendants, which was unjuried and open to all artists. The painting received mixed reviews. Rousseau had been a late developer: his first known work, Landscape with a Windmill, was not produced until he was 35, and his work is marked by a naïveté of composition that belies its technical complexity. Most critics mocked Rousseau's work as childish, but Félix Vallotton, a young Swiss painter who was later to be an important figure in the development of the modern woodcut, said of it: He (Rousseau's tiger) is derived from a motif found in the drawings and paintings of Eugène Delacroix. It was claimed, either by Rousseau himself or by his friends and admirers, that he had experienced life in the jungle during his time in Mexico in 1860, where he had served as a regimental bandsman. In fact he never left France, and it is thought that his inspiration came from the botanical gardens of Paris, such as the Jardin des Plantes (which included zoological galleries with taxidermy specimens of exotic animals), and from prints and books. The fin de siècle French populace was captivated by exotic and dangerous subjects, such as the perceived savagery of animals and peoples of distant lands (Morris & Green, 49–60). Tigers on the prowl had been the subject of an exhibition at the 1885 École des Beaux-Arts. Emmanuel Frémiet's famous sculpture of 1887 depicting a gorilla carrying a woman exuded more savagery than anything in Rousseau's canvases, yet was found acceptable as art; Rosseau's poor immediate reception therefore seems the result of his style and not his subject matter (Morris & Green, 143). The tiger's prey is beyond the edge of the canvas, so it is left to the imagination of the viewer to decide what the outcome will be, although Rousseau's original title Surprised! suggests the tiger has the upper hand. Rousseau later stated that the tiger was about to pounce on a group of explorers. Despite their apparent simplicity, Rousseau's jungle paintings were built up meticulously in layers, using a large number of green shades to capture the lush exuberance of the jungle. He also devised his own method for depicting the lashing rain by trailing strands of silver paint diagonally across the canvas, a technique inspired by the satin-like finishes of the paintings of William-Adolphe Bouguereau. Although Tiger in a Tropical Storm brought him his first recognition, and he continued to exhibit his work annually at the Salon des Indépendants, Rousseau did not return to the jungle theme for another seven years, with the exhibition of Struggle for Life (now lost) at the 1898 Salon. Responses to his work were little changed; following this exhibition, one critic wrote, "Rousseau continues to express his visions on canvas in implausible jungles... grown from the depths of a lake of absinthe, he shows us the bloody battles of animals escaped from the wooden-horse-maker" (Morris & Green, 142). Another five years passed before the next jungle scene, Scouts Attacked by a Tiger (1904). The tiger appears in at least three more of his paintings: Tiger Hunt (c. 1895), in which humans are the predators; Jungle with Buffalo Attacked by a Tiger (1908); and Fight Between a Tiger and a Buffalo (1908). His work continued to be derided by the critics up to and after his death in 1910, but he won a following among his contemporaries: Picasso, Matisse, and Toulouse-Lautrec were all admirers of his work. Around 1908, the art dealer Ambroise Vollard purchased Surprised! and two other works from Rousseau, who had offered them at a rate considerably higher than the 190 francs he finally received. The painting was later purchased by the National Gallery, London in 1972 with a contribution from the billionaire philanthropist Walter H. Annenberg.. 
The Favourites of the Emperor Honorius. Author Name: John William Waterhouse. . . The Favourites of the Emperor Honorius is a painting by John William Waterhouse completed in 1883. The painting depicts Honorius feeding birds which are on the rug in front of him; the dark colors of the rug and his clothes define a space. Separated from him and the birds are the councillors seeking his attention, and who along with the attendant are dressed in paler shades.The Favourites of the Emperor Honorius is part of the collection of the Art Gallery of South Australia, which also owns Waterhouse's Circe Invidiosa.. The Favourites of the Emperor Honorius is a painting by John William Waterhouse completed in 1883. The painting depicts Honorius feeding birds which are on the rug in front of him; the dark colors of the rug and his clothes define a space. Separated from him and the birds are the councillors seeking his attention, and who along with the attendant are dressed in paler shades. The Favourites of the Emperor Honorius is part of the collection of the Art Gallery of South Australia, which also owns Waterhouse's Circe Invidiosa.. 
Bulb Fields. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Bulb Fields also known as Flower Beds in Holland is an oil painting created in 1883 by Vincent van Gogh.Bulb Fields was Van Gogh’s first garden painting. Rectangular plots of blue, yellow, pink and red hyacinths allow Van Gogh to explore his interest in perspective. The low vantage point creates a panoramic view of the field of colorful spring flowers. It was made in Van Gogh's second year in The Hague.. Bulb Fields also known as Flower Beds in Holland is an oil painting created in 1883 by Vincent van Gogh. Bulb Fields was Van Gogh’s first garden painting. Rectangular plots of blue, yellow, pink and red hyacinths allow Van Gogh to explore his interest in perspective. The low vantage point creates a panoramic view of the field of colorful spring flowers. It was made in Van Gogh's second year in The Hague.. 
Iron Man. Author Name: Anderson, Jack E.. . . The Iron Man statue is located at the entrance to the Minnesota Discovery Center 1.28 kilometers outside in Chisholm, Minnesota. It is 81 ft tall (25 m) including the 36-foot-tall figure (11 m), and was completed in 1987 out of iron ore. It is accompanied by a plaque with the The Emergence of Man Through Steel poem and is said to be the world's largest iron man.[citation needed] It was created by Jack E. Anderson of Lake Linden, Michigan, who also created a Bishop Baraga sculpture in L'Anse, Michigan.. The Iron Man statue is located at the entrance to the Minnesota Discovery Center 1.28 kilometers outside in Chisholm, Minnesota. It is 81 ft tall (25 m) including the 36-foot-tall figure (11 m), and was completed in 1987 out of iron ore. It is accompanied by a plaque with the The Emergence of Man Through Steel poem and is said to be the world's largest iron man.[citation needed] It was created by Jack E. Anderson of Lake Linden, Michigan, who also created a Bishop Baraga sculpture in L'Anse, Michigan.. 
Thinker on a Rock. Author Name: Barry Flanagan. . . Thinker on a Rock is a bronze sculpture by Barry Flanagan.It is installed at Washington University in St. Louis, the John and Mary Pappajohn Sculpture Park in Des Moines, Iowa, Utrecht, and the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden.. Thinker on a Rock is a bronze sculpture by Barry Flanagan. It is installed at Washington University in St. Louis, the John and Mary Pappajohn Sculpture Park in Des Moines, Iowa, Utrecht, and the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden.. 
Ideals. Author Name: Castanis, Muriel. . . Ideals is an outdoor 1992 bronze sculpture by Muriel Castanis, located at the Portland State Office Building in northeast Portland, Oregon.. Ideals is an outdoor 1992 bronze sculpture by Muriel Castanis, located at the Portland State Office Building in northeast Portland, Oregon.. 
Springtime. Author Name: Claude Monet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Springtime is an 1872 painting by Claude Monet. It depicts his first wife, Camille Doncieux, seated serenely beneath a canopy of lilacs. The painting is presently held by the Walters Art Museum.. Springtime is an 1872 painting by Claude Monet. It depicts his first wife, Camille Doncieux, seated serenely beneath a canopy of lilacs. The painting is presently held by the Walters Art Museum.. 
The Derby of Epsom. Author Name: Théodore Géricault. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . The 1821 Derby at Epsom, or Horse race ("Course de chevaux, dit traditionnellement Le derby de 1821 à Epsom per the Louvre"), is an 1821 painting by Théodore Géricault in the Louvre Museum, showing the Epsom Derby of that year.. The 1821 Derby at Epsom, or Horse race ("Course de chevaux, dit traditionnellement Le derby de 1821 à Epsom per the Louvre"), is an 1821 painting by Théodore Géricault in the Louvre Museum, showing the Epsom Derby of that year. Fascinated by the horses, Géricault made many paintings portraying them. Working for a while at the imperial stables, he had the opportunity to study in detail and made numerous "portraits" of horses. This work is not related to that series of portraits but it illustrates a similar theme horses, as the artist has done many times, such as in Officer Hunter Horse of the Imperial Guard Charging in 1812 or Race of Free Horses in Rome in 1819. This work is a rare and valuable example of painting dated from his travel in England, when Géricault preferred to work in lithography. He painted this painting for the English horse dealer Adam Elmore. The painting was acquired by the Musée du Louvre in 1866. The position of the horses' legs in the painting - with both front and hind legs extended outwards - is never actually exhibited by a galloping horse. This was discovered by Eadweard Muybridge in 1878.. 
St Mark's Body Brought to Venice. Author Name: Tintoretto. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . St Mark's Body Brought to Venice, The Abduction of the Body of Saint Mark or Translation of the Body of Saint Mark is a painting by Tintoretto. It was produced between 1562 and 1566 as part of a series of works on Saint Mark for the Sala Capitolare of the Scuola Grande di San Marco - the others were Miracle of the Slave and Finding of the body of St Mark. It is now held in the Gallerie dell'Accademia in Venice.. St Mark's Body Brought to Venice, The Abduction of the Body of Saint Mark or Translation of the Body of Saint Mark is a painting by Tintoretto. It was produced between 1562 and 1566 as part of a series of works on Saint Mark for the Sala Capitolare of the Scuola Grande di San Marco - the others were Miracle of the Slave and Finding of the body of St Mark. It is now held in the Gallerie dell'Accademia in Venice. The painting is notable for its striking, deep perspective background lines. The colours are darker in the near subjects, while the figures in the background are white, nearly transparent. The strange red sky is roiling with ominous clouds, riven with a thunderbolt, affording the painting a heavy, dynamic atmosphere. Tintoretto himself is portrayed within the work as the bearded man beside the camel.. 
The Back Series. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . The Back Series is a series of four bas-relief sculptures, by Henri Matisse. It's Matisse's largest and most monumental sculptures. The plaster originals are housed in the Musée Matisse in Le Cateau-Cambrésis, France.They were modeled between 1909 and 1930. Back (I) appeared in the second PostImpressionist show in London, and the Armory Show in New York City.. The Back Series is a series of four bas-relief sculptures, by Henri Matisse. It's Matisse's largest and most monumental sculptures. The plaster originals are housed in the Musée Matisse in Le Cateau-Cambrésis, France. They were modeled between 1909 and 1930. Back (I) appeared in the second PostImpressionist show in London, and the Armory Show in New York City. All four sculptures were unique plaster casts until 1950, when Back (I), (III), and (IV) were cast in bronze. Back (II) was rediscovered in 1955, a year after the artist’s death, then it was cast. The series have been cast in a bronze edition of twelve, included one for the artist's family. Nine complete sets are housed in nine major museums around the world:. 
Development of a Bottle in Space. Author Name: Umberto Boccioni. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Futurism. . Development of a Bottle in Space (Italian: Sviluppo di una Bottliglia nello Spazaio) is a bronze futurist sculpture by Umberto Boccioni. Initially a sketch in Boccioni’s “Technical Manifesto of Futurist Sculpture," the design was later cast into bronze by Boccioni himself in the year 1913. Consistent with many of themes in Boccioni’s manifesto, the work of art highlights the artist’s first successful attempt at creating a sculpture that both molds and encloses space within itself.. Development of a Bottle in Space (Italian: Sviluppo di una Bottliglia nello Spazaio) is a bronze futurist sculpture by Umberto Boccioni. Initially a sketch in Boccioni’s “Technical Manifesto of Futurist Sculpture," the design was later cast into bronze by Boccioni himself in the year 1913. Consistent with many of themes in Boccioni’s manifesto, the work of art highlights the artist’s first successful attempt at creating a sculpture that both molds and encloses space within itself.. 
The Crab. Author Name: Alexander "Sandy" Calder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstraction_(art). . The Crab is an outdoor 1962 painted steel sculpture by Alexander Calder, installed outside the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, in the U.S. state of Texas. It measures 120 inches (3.0 m) x 240 inches (6.1 m) x 120 inches (3.0 m) inches.. The Crab is an outdoor 1962 painted steel sculpture by Alexander Calder, installed outside the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, in the U.S. state of Texas. It measures 120 inches (3.0 m) x 240 inches (6.1 m) x 120 inches (3.0 m) inches.. 
The Knitting Girl. Author Name: William-Adolphe Bouguereau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Knitting Girl (French: La Couseuse) is a painting created by nineteenth century French artist William-Adolphe Bouguereau in 1869. The painting is also referred to as Knitting Anne due to the simplistic nature of the young woman portrayed in the painting. The painting is currently held in the Joslyn Art Museum in Omaha, Nebraska in the United States.. The Knitting Girl (French: La Couseuse) is a painting created by nineteenth century French artist William-Adolphe Bouguereau in 1869. The painting is also referred to as Knitting Anne due to the simplistic nature of the young woman portrayed in the painting. The painting is currently held in the Joslyn Art Museum in Omaha, Nebraska in the United States.. 
Vitruvian Man. Author Name: Leonardo da Vinci. . . The Vitruvian Man, Italian: Le proporzioni del corpo umano secondo Vitruvio or simply L'Uomo Vitruviano [ˈlwɔːmo vitruˈvjaːno], is a drawing by Leonardo da Vinci around 1490. It is accompanied by notes based on the work of the architect Vitruvius. The drawing, which is in pen and ink on paper, depicts a man in two superimposed positions with his arms and legs apart and inscribed in a circle and square. The drawing and text are sometimes called the Canon of Proportions or, less often, Proportions of Man. It is kept in the Gabinetto dei disegni e stampe of the Gallerie dell'Accademia, in Venice, Italy, under reference 228. Like most works on paper, it is displayed to the public only occasionally.. The Vitruvian Man, Italian: Le proporzioni del corpo umano secondo Vitruvio or simply L'Uomo Vitruviano [ˈlwɔːmo vitruˈvjaːno], is a drawing by Leonardo da Vinci around 1490. It is accompanied by notes based on the work of the architect Vitruvius. The drawing, which is in pen and ink on paper, depicts a man in two superimposed positions with his arms and legs apart and inscribed in a circle and square. The drawing and text are sometimes called the Canon of Proportions or, less often, Proportions of Man. It is kept in the Gabinetto dei disegni e stampe of the Gallerie dell'Accademia, in Venice, Italy, under reference 228. Like most works on paper, it is displayed to the public only occasionally. The drawing is based on the correlations of ideal human proportions with geometry described by the ancient Roman architect Vitruvius in Book III of his treatise De Architectura. Vitruvius described the human figure as being the principal source of proportion among the Classical orders of architecture. Vitruvius determined that the ideal body should be eight heads high. Leonardo's drawing is traditionally named in honor of the architect.. 
Madonna of the Meadow. Author Name: Giovanni Bellini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . Madonna del Prato (Madonna of the Meadow) is a 1505 painting of the Virgin Mary and the Christ Child by Giovanni Bellini, now in the National Gallery in London. Originally painted as oil and egg tempera on wood, it was transferred to canvas in 1949,  with damage in places.. Madonna del Prato (Madonna of the Meadow) is a 1505 painting of the Virgin Mary and the Christ Child by Giovanni Bellini, now in the National Gallery in London. Originally painted as oil and egg tempera on wood, it was transferred to canvas in 1949, with damage in places. It presents a medieval iconography of the Virgin of humility seated before a full and shining rural panorama, with both the devotional aspect and the landscape aspect given equal prominence. Full of small details of everyday life, this landscape contributes to the intimate and familiar tone of the two figures. The vulture in the tree also possibly symbolises death. The figures' poses invite meditation on Jesus's death and passion, recalling Pietà compositions with the dead adult Jesus in his mother's lap.. 
Surrender of General Burgoyne. Author Name: John Trumbull. . . The Surrender of General Burgoyne is an oil painting by John Trumbull. The painting was completed in 1821, and hangs in the rotunda of the United States Capitol in Washington, D. C.The painting depicts the surrender of British Lieutenant General John Burgoyne at Saratoga, New York on October 17, 1777, ten days after the Second Battle of Saratoga. Included in the depiction are many leaders of the American Continental Army and militia forces that took part in the battle as well as the Hessian commander Friedrich Adolf Riedesel and two British Army officers: Burgoyne and General William Phillips.. The Surrender of General Burgoyne is an oil painting by John Trumbull. The painting was completed in 1821, and hangs in the rotunda of the United States Capitol in Washington, D. C. The painting depicts the surrender of British Lieutenant General John Burgoyne at Saratoga, New York on October 17, 1777, ten days after the Second Battle of Saratoga. Included in the depiction are many leaders of the American Continental Army and militia forces that took part in the battle as well as the Hessian commander Friedrich Adolf Riedesel and two British Army officers: Burgoyne and General William Phillips.. 
Doctor Gachet's Garden in Auvers. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Dr. Gachet's Garden in Auvers and Marguerite Gachet in the Garden were both painted in 1890 by Vincent van Gogh in the gardens of his homeopathic physician, Dr. Paul Gachet. Both paintings reside at the Musée d'Orsay.. Dr. Gachet's Garden in Auvers and Marguerite Gachet in the Garden were both painted in 1890 by Vincent van Gogh in the gardens of his homeopathic physician, Dr. Paul Gachet. Both paintings reside at the Musée d'Orsay.. 
Compound Junior. Author Name: Beverly Pepper. . . Compound Junior is a public art work by artist Beverly Pepper located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The stainless steel sculpture is an abstract bent line. The form's ends are pressed to the ground horizontally and its middle is jutting upward vertically; it is installed on the lawn.. Compound Junior is a public art work by artist Beverly Pepper located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The stainless steel sculpture is an abstract bent line. The form's ends are pressed to the ground horizontally and its middle is jutting upward vertically; it is installed on the lawn.. 
George Washington. Author Name: Bailly, Joseph A.. . . George Washington is a statue of George Washington, by Joseph A. Bailly at Independence Hall, Philadelphia on Chestnut street between 5th and 6th streets.The white marble original, installed on the north side of Independence Hall, was dedicated on July 2, 1869, by mayor Daniel M. Fox. It is now located in Conversation Hall, Philadelphia City Hall.A bronze replica replaced the original, and was dedicated in October 1910.. George Washington is a statue of George Washington, by Joseph A. Bailly at Independence Hall, Philadelphia on Chestnut street between 5th and 6th streets. The white marble original, installed on the north side of Independence Hall, was dedicated on July 2, 1869, by mayor Daniel M. Fox. It is now located in Conversation Hall, Philadelphia City Hall. A bronze replica replaced the original, and was dedicated in October 1910.. 
Venus of Urbino. Author Name: Titian. . . The Venus of Urbino is a 1538 oil painting by the Italian master Titian. It depicts a nude young woman, identified with the goddess Venus, reclining on a couch or bed in the sumptuous surroundings of a Renaissance palace. It hangs in the Galleria degli Uffizi in Florence. The figure's pose is based on Giorgione's Sleeping Venus (c. 1510), which Titian completed. In this depiction, Titian has domesticated Venus by moving her to an indoor setting, engaging her with the viewer, and making her sensuality explicit. Devoid as it is of any classical or allegorical trappings – Venus displays none of the attributes of the goddess she is supposed to represent – the painting is unapologetically erotic.. The Venus of Urbino is a 1538 oil painting by the Italian master Titian. It depicts a nude young woman, identified with the goddess Venus, reclining on a couch or bed in the sumptuous surroundings of a Renaissance palace. It hangs in the Galleria degli Uffizi in Florence. The figure's pose is based on Giorgione's Sleeping Venus (c. 1510), which Titian completed. In this depiction, Titian has domesticated Venus by moving her to an indoor setting, engaging her with the viewer, and making her sensuality explicit. Devoid as it is of any classical or allegorical trappings – Venus displays none of the attributes of the goddess she is supposed to represent – the painting is unapologetically erotic.. 
''A Meadow in the Mountains:. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . A Meadow in the Mountains: Le Mas de Saint-Paul was painted by Vincent van Gogh in 1889.In May 1889 Van Gogh voluntarily entered the asylum of St. Paul near Saint-Rémy in Provence. There Van Gogh had access to an adjacent cell he used as his studio. He was initially confined to the immediate asylum grounds and painted (without the bars) the world he saw from his room, such as ivy covered trees, lilacs, and irises of the garden. Through the open bars Van Gogh could also see an enclosed wheat field, subject of many paintings at Saint-Rémy. As he ventured outside the asylum walls he painted the wheat fields, olive groves and cypress trees of the surrounding countryside, which he saw as "characteristic of Provence." Over the course of the year, he painted about 150 canvases.. A Meadow in the Mountains: Le Mas de Saint-Paul was painted by Vincent van Gogh in 1889. In May 1889 Van Gogh voluntarily entered the asylum of St. Paul near Saint-Rémy in Provence. There Van Gogh had access to an adjacent cell he used as his studio. He was initially confined to the immediate asylum grounds and painted (without the bars) the world he saw from his room, such as ivy covered trees, lilacs, and irises of the garden. Through the open bars Van Gogh could also see an enclosed wheat field, subject of many paintings at Saint-Rémy. As he ventured outside the asylum walls he painted the wheat fields, olive groves and cypress trees of the surrounding countryside, which he saw as "characteristic of Provence." Over the course of the year, he painted about 150 canvases.. 
Plum Park in Kameido. Author Name: Hiroshige. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Utagawa_school. . Plum Park in Kameido (亀戸梅屋舗, Kameido Umeyashiki) is a woodblock print in the ukiyo-e genre by the Japanese artist Hiroshige. It was published in 1857 as the thirtieth print in the One Hundred Famous Views of Edo series and depicts Prunus mume trees in bloom.. Plum Park in Kameido (亀戸梅屋舗, Kameido Umeyashiki) is a woodblock print in the ukiyo-e genre by the Japanese artist Hiroshige. It was published in 1857 as the thirtieth print in the One Hundred Famous Views of Edo series and depicts Prunus mume trees in bloom.. 
Christ and the Woman Taken in Adultery. Author Name: Pieter Bruegel the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_and_Flemish_Renaissance_painting. . Christ and the Woman Taken in Adultery is a small panel painting in grisaille (near monochrome) by the Netherlandish Renaissance printmaker and painter Pieter Bruegel the Elder. It is signed and dated 1565.Bruegel depicts the woman as one of the few graceful figures in the scene. She is rendered as an idealised form, atypical of Brugel's usual earthy and homely female figures; though the basic layout of the composition is Netherlandish, "the austere composition and monumental figures are perhaps the most Italianate in all Bruegel's paintings".. Christ and the Woman Taken in Adultery is a small panel painting in grisaille (near monochrome) by the Netherlandish Renaissance printmaker and painter Pieter Bruegel the Elder. It is signed and dated 1565. Jesus and the woman taken in adultery is a biblical episode from John 7:53-8:11 where Jesus encounters an adulteress brought before Pharisees and scribes, which has been depicted by many artists. Such a crime was punishable by death by stoning, however, in the scene, Jesus stoops to write (in Dutch) "he that is without sin among you, let him first cast the stone at her" on the ground before her feet. A number of the unthrown stones lay on the floor to the left of the woman. Bruegel depicts the woman as one of the few graceful figures in the scene. She is rendered as an idealised form, atypical of Brugel's usual earthy and homely female figures; though the basic layout of the composition is Netherlandish, "the austere composition and monumental figures are perhaps the most Italianate in all Bruegel's paintings". The painting was not sold by the artist, and seems to be the only one inherited by his son Jan Brueghel the Elder. An engraving was published in 1579 by Paul Perret, who was apparently lent the painting for the purpose, since there are regular pricks along the edges to enable a grid to be made. There are a number of other copies, some attributed to the artist's sons, perhaps made after the engraving, and the painting was lent to Cardinal Federico Borromeo for copying (perhaps the version now in Bergamo). A version attributed to Breuegel's son Pieter Brueghel the Younger of c. 1600 is in the Philadelphia Museum of Art. The work was sold by the family in the 17th century, apparently by Jan Brueghel the Younger, and was in England by the 18th century, being sold at Christie's in 1834 and again in 1952 when it was bought by Count Antoine Seilern, whose collection was bequeathed to the Courtauld in 1978. The work was stolen from the Courtauld Gallery on 2 February 1982. Because of its value and fame, it proved unsaleable on the open market, and did not resurface again until 1992 when it was recovered by British police. During that interim, it likely acted as collateral for the criminals.. 
Portrait of Charles V. Author Name: Titian. . . The Portrait of Charles V is an oil on canvas portrait of Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor by Titian, painted in 1548. As with the Equestrian Portrait of Charles V, it was commissioned by Charles during Titian's stay at the imperial court at Augsburg. It is now held in the Alte Pinakothek in Munich, Germany.It shows Charles V seated on a chair to the left, facing the viewer, with his black robes contrasted with the red carpet and gold tapestry behind him. In the right half of the painting is a landscape, barely sketched in, in light colours.. The Portrait of Charles V is an oil on canvas portrait of Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor by Titian, painted in 1548. As with the Equestrian Portrait of Charles V, it was commissioned by Charles during Titian's stay at the imperial court at Augsburg. It is now held in the Alte Pinakothek in Munich, Germany. It shows Charles V seated on a chair to the left, facing the viewer, with his black robes contrasted with the red carpet and gold tapestry behind him. In the right half of the painting is a landscape, barely sketched in, in light colours. In his 2014 book World Order, Henry Kissinger writes of the painting: "The efforts to fill his aspirations inherent in his office was beyond the capabilities of a single individual. A haunting portrait by Titian from 1548 at Munich's Alte Pinakothek reveals the torment of an eminence who cannot reach spiritual fulfillment or manipulate the ... levers of hegemonic rule.". 
Marriage Portrait of Isaac Massa and Beatrix van der Laen. Author Name: Frans Hals. . . Marriage Portrait of Isaac Massa and Beatrix van der Laen is a painting by the Dutch Golden Age painter Frans Hals, painted in 1622 and now in the Rijksmuseum, Amsterdam. The couple has been identified as Isaac Massa and his bride Beatrix van der Laen.. Marriage Portrait of Isaac Massa and Beatrix van der Laen is a painting by the Dutch Golden Age painter Frans Hals, painted in 1622 and now in the Rijksmuseum, Amsterdam. The couple has been identified as Isaac Massa and his bride Beatrix van der Laen.. 
Infanta Margarita Teresa in a Blue Dress. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Infanta Margarita Teresa in a Blue Dress is one of the best known portraits by Spanish painter Diego Velázquez. Executed in oil on canvas, it measures 127 cm high by 107 cm wide and was one of Velázquez's last paintings, produced in 1659, a year before his death. It shows Margaret Theresa of Spain who also appears in the artist's Las Meninas. Currently, the painting is in the Kunsthistorisches Museum.. Infanta Margarita Teresa in a Blue Dress is one of the best known portraits by Spanish painter Diego Velázquez. Executed in oil on canvas, it measures 127 cm high by 107 cm wide and was one of Velázquez's last paintings, produced in 1659, a year before his death. It shows Margaret Theresa of Spain who also appears in the artist's Las Meninas. Currently, the painting is in the Kunsthistorisches Museum. This is one of the several court portraits made by Velázquez on different occasions of Infanta Margaret Theresa who, at fifteen, married her uncle, Leopold I, Holy Roman Emperor. She's the little infanta who appears in Las Meninas (1656). These paintings show her in different stages of her childhood; they were sent to Vienna to inform Leopold of what his young fiancée looked like. The Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna has two other outstanding paintings by Velázquez: Infanta Maria Teresa and Prince Philip Prospero. However, this portrait of Infanta Margarita is possibly the best of the three. In this portrait, Velázquez used the technique of loose brushstrokes that fuse into coherence only when viewed from a certain distance. The infanta, here eight years old, is shown with a solemn expression. She wears a blue silk dress which is adorned with silver borders after the Spanish fashion of the era; the most striking characteristic is the huge expanse of the voluminous crinoline which is accentuated by the trimmed borders and the wide lace collar. In one of her hands she holds a brown fur muff, perhaps a present from Vienna. The young girl, who is presented as pretty and appealing, has a pale countenance which is enhanced by the blue and silver tones. In the background, there is a high console table with a round mirror behind it.. 
Rouen Cathedral, Full Sunlight. Author Name: Claude Monet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Rouen Cathedral series was painted in the 1890s by French impressionist Claude Monet. The paintings in the series each capture the façade of the cathedral at different times of the day and year, and reflect changes in its appearance under different lighting conditions.. The Rouen Cathedral series was painted in the 1890s by French impressionist Claude Monet. The paintings in the series each capture the façade of the cathedral at different times of the day and year, and reflect changes in its appearance under different lighting conditions.. 
Brushstrokes. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Brushstrokes is a 1965 oil and Magna on canvas pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It is the first element of the Brushstrokes series of artworks that includes several paintings and sculptures. As with all of his Brushstrokes works, it is in part a satirical response to the gestural painting of Abstract Expressionism.. Brushstrokes is a 1965 oil and Magna on canvas pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It is the first element of the Brushstrokes series of artworks that includes several paintings and sculptures. As with all of his Brushstrokes works, it is in part a satirical response to the gestural painting of Abstract Expressionism.. 
Diana. Author Name: Augustus Saint-Gaudens. . . Diana – also known as Diana of the Tower – is an iconic statue by sculptor Augustus Saint-Gaudens. Once a famous New York City landmark, the second version stood atop the tower of Madison Square Garden from 1893 to 1925. Since 1932, it has been in the collection of the Philadelphia Museum of Art.. Diana – also known as Diana of the Tower – is an iconic statue by sculptor Augustus Saint-Gaudens. Once a famous New York City landmark, the second version stood atop the tower of Madison Square Garden from 1893 to 1925. Since 1932, it has been in the collection of the Philadelphia Museum of Art.. 
Portrait of a Young Man. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Portrait of a Young Man is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Sandro Botticelli, dated between 1470 and 1475. It is housed in the Palazzo Pitti of Florence.Variously attributed to different painters, it was eventually included in Botticelli's works. It is one of the first known three-quarters portraits in western European art.. The Portrait of a Young Man is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Sandro Botticelli, dated between 1470 and 1475. It is housed in the Palazzo Pitti of Florence. Variously attributed to different painters, it was eventually included in Botticelli's works. It is one of the first known three-quarters portraits in western European art.. 
Christ Blessing. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Christ Blessing is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael.The features of Christ bear some resemblance to Raphael's.. Christ Blessing is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael. The features of Christ bear some resemblance to Raphael's.. 
Emancipation Memorial. Author Name: Thomas Ball. . . The Emancipation Memorial, also known as the Freedman’s Memorial or the Emancipation Group, and sometimes referred to as the "Lincoln Memorial" before the more prominent so-named memorial was built, is a monument in Lincoln Park in the Capitol Hill neighborhood of Washington, D.C.Designed and sculpted by Thomas Ball and erected in 1876, the monument depicts Abraham Lincoln in his role of the "Great Emancipator" freeing a male African American slave modeled on Archer Alexander. The ex-slave is depicted on one knee, with one fist clenched, shirtless and shackled at the president's feet.. The Emancipation Memorial, also known as the Freedman’s Memorial or the Emancipation Group, and sometimes referred to as the "Lincoln Memorial" before the more prominent so-named memorial was built, is a monument in Lincoln Park in the Capitol Hill neighborhood of Washington, D.C. Designed and sculpted by Thomas Ball and erected in 1876, the monument depicts Abraham Lincoln in his role of the "Great Emancipator" freeing a male African American slave modeled on Archer Alexander. The ex-slave is depicted on one knee, with one fist clenched, shirtless and shackled at the president's feet. The statue originally faced west towards the U.S. Capitol until it was rotated east in 1974 in order to face the newly-erected Mary McLeod Bethune Memorial. The monument has long been the subject of controversy. According to information from American University: Despite being paid for by African Americans, historian Kirk Savage in 1997 condemned it as "a monument entrenched in and perpetuating racist ideology" because of the supplicant and inferior position of the Black figure. The statue is a contributing monument to the Civil War Monuments in Washington, DC, of the National Register of Historic Places.. 
Sleeping Venus. Author Name: Giorgione. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Sleeping Venus, also known as the Dresden Venus, is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giorgione. It was completed after Giorgione's death in 1510, with the landscape and sky generally accepted to have been completed by Titian. It is in the Gemäldegalerie, Dresden.In his monograph of Renaissance art, Sydney Freedberg writes:. The Sleeping Venus, also known as the Dresden Venus, is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giorgione. It was completed after Giorgione's death in 1510, with the landscape and sky generally accepted to have been completed by Titian. It is in the Gemäldegalerie, Dresden. The painting, one of the last works by Giorgione, portrays a nude woman whose profile seems to follow that of the hills in the background. Giorgione put a great deal of effort into painting the background details and shadows. The choice of a nude woman marked a revolution in art, and is considered by some authorities one of the starting points of modern art. The painting was unfinished at the time of his death. The landscape and sky were later finished by Titian, who later painted the similar Venus of Urbino. Underlying erotic implications are made by Venus's raised arm and the placement of her left hand on her groin. The sheets are painted in silver, being a cold colour rather than the more commonly used warm tones for linens, and they are rigid looking in comparison to those depicted in similar paintings by Titian or Velázquez. The landscape mimics the curves of the woman's body and this, in turn, relates the human body back to being a natural, organic object. In his monograph of Renaissance art, Sydney Freedberg writes: The pose of the figure has been connected with a figure in one of the woodcut illustrations to Hypnerotomachia Poliphili of 1499, but a nude of this size, as a single subject, was unprecedented in Western painting, and to a large extent determined the treatment of the type for centuries to come, excluding, for example, the more explicit treatment in the contemporary engravings of Giovanni Battista Palumba. Although prints had contained many more nude female figures, the two famous paintings of Botticelli, the Birth of Venus and the Primavera, are the closest precedents in painting. The contemplative attitude toward nature and beauty of the figure is typical of Giorgione. The composition of this painting was highly influential, despite very public display of such images often being restricted for some centuries. The influence of this painting or paintings it influenced can be traced in a number of later reclining nudes such as the Pardo Venus and Venus of Urbino of Titian, the somewhat censored Rokeby Venus of Velázquez, Goya's teasing La maja desnuda, and Olympia by Manet, and other works by Ingres and Rubens, to name but a few.. 
The Storm on the Sea of Galilee. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Storm on the Sea of Galilee is a painting from 1633 by the Dutch Golden Age painter Rembrandt van Rijn that was in the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum of Boston, Massachusetts, United States, prior to being stolen in 1990. The painting depicts the miracle of Jesus calming the storm on the Sea of Galilee, as depicted in the fourth chapter of the Gospel of Mark in the New Testament of the Christian Bible. It is Rembrandt's only seascape.. The Storm on the Sea of Galilee is a painting from 1633 by the Dutch Golden Age painter Rembrandt van Rijn that was in the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum of Boston, Massachusetts, United States, prior to being stolen in 1990. The painting depicts the miracle of Jesus calming the storm on the Sea of Galilee, as depicted in the fourth chapter of the Gospel of Mark in the New Testament of the Christian Bible. It is Rembrandt's only seascape.. 
Religion saved by Spain. Author Name: Titian. . . Religion saved by Spain is an oil on canvas painting produced between 1572-1575 by the Italian master of the Venetian school, Titian (c. 1488/(1482) – 1576) commemorating the Battle of Lepanto. It is a late work by Titian, and it is considered as an outstanding piece by Titian, who lived to reach a high older. It was purchased by the Prado Museum collection in 1839. Other titles are Spain succoring Religion or Religion succored by Spain.. Religion saved by Spain is an oil on canvas painting produced between 1572-1575 by the Italian master of the Venetian school, Titian (c. 1488/(1482) – 1576) commemorating the Battle of Lepanto. It is a late work by Titian, and it is considered as an outstanding piece by Titian, who lived to reach a high older. It was purchased by the Prado Museum collection in 1839. Other titles are Spain succoring Religion or Religion succored by Spain.. 
(London version). Author Name: Leonardo da Vinci. . . The Virgin of the Rocks (sometimes the Madonna of the Rocks) is the name used for two paintings by Leonardo da Vinci, of the same subject, and of a composition which is identical except for several significant details. The version generally considered the prime version, that is the earlier of the two, hangs in The Louvre in Paris and the other in the National Gallery, London. The paintings are both nearly 2 metres (over 6 feet) high and are painted in oils. Both were painted on wooden panel; that in the Louvre has been transferred to canvas.. The Virgin of the Rocks (sometimes the Madonna of the Rocks) is the name used for two paintings by Leonardo da Vinci, of the same subject, and of a composition which is identical except for several significant details. The version generally considered the prime version, that is the earlier of the two, hangs in The Louvre in Paris and the other in the National Gallery, London. The paintings are both nearly 2 metres (over 6 feet) high and are painted in oils. Both were painted on wooden panel; that in the Louvre has been transferred to canvas. Both paintings show the Madonna and Child Jesus with the infant John the Baptist and an angel, in a rocky setting which gives the paintings their usual name. The significant compositional differences are in the gaze and right hand of the angel. There are many minor ways in which the works differ, including the colours, the lighting, the flora, and the way in which sfumato has been used. Although the date of an associated commission is documented, the complete histories of the two paintings are unknown, and lead to speculation about which of the two is earlier. Two further paintings are associated with the commission: side panels each containing an angel playing a musical instrument and completed by associates of Leonardo. These are both in the National Gallery, London.. 
Jeune Fille Endormie. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Jeune Fille Endormie is a 1935 work by Spanish painter Pablo Picasso. It was sold at Christie's auction house in London in 2011 for nearly £13.5 million after being donated to the University of Sydney by an anonymous American donor.. Jeune Fille Endormie is a 1935 work by Spanish painter Pablo Picasso. It was sold at Christie's auction house in London in 2011 for nearly £13.5 million after being donated to the University of Sydney by an anonymous American donor.. 
Portrait of Eleanor of Toledo and Her Son. Author Name: Bronzino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . The Portrait of Eleanor of Toledo and Her Son is a painting by the Italian artist Agnolo di Cosimo, known as Bronzino, finished ca. 1545. One of his most famous works, it is housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence, Italy and is considered one of the preeminent examples of Mannerist portraiture. The painting depicts Eleanor of Toledo, the wife of Cosimo I de' Medici, Grand Duke of Tuscany, sitting with her hand resting on the shoulder of one of her sons. This gesture, as well as the pomegranate motif on her dress, referred to her role as mother. Eleanor wears a heavily brocaded dress with black arabesques. In this pose, she is depicted as the ideal woman of the Renaissance.. The Portrait of Eleanor of Toledo and Her Son is a painting by the Italian artist Agnolo di Cosimo, known as Bronzino, finished ca. 1545. One of his most famous works, it is housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence, Italy and is considered one of the preeminent examples of Mannerist portraiture. The painting depicts Eleanor of Toledo, the wife of Cosimo I de' Medici, Grand Duke of Tuscany, sitting with her hand resting on the shoulder of one of her sons. This gesture, as well as the pomegranate motif on her dress, referred to her role as mother. Eleanor wears a heavily brocaded dress with black arabesques. In this pose, she is depicted as the ideal woman of the Renaissance. The painting is the first known state-commissioned portrait to include the ruler's heir. Diane Hughes of the University of Michigan believes that Eleanor is portrayed first and foremost as a mother because his predecessor Alessandro died without leaving any legitimate male heirs. By including the child, Cosimo implied that his rule would bring stability to the duchy. The child has been variously identified as being either her son Francesco (born 1541), Giovanni (born 1543) or Garzia (born 1547). If the subject is the latter, the portrait should be dated around 1550–53, but the date is now generally assigned to c. 1545, based on an examination of the evolution of Bronzino's style, which would suggest Giovanni. The portrait has been called "cold", reflecting the sober formality of Eleanor's native Spanish Court, without the warmth typically expected of a portrait of mother and child. Such distancing is typical of the Mannerist school's rejection of naturalism. Conversely, Eleanor's gown of elaborate brocaded velvet, with its massed bouclé effects of gold weft loops in the style called riccio sopra riccio (loop over loop), is painstakingly replicated. The painting is perhaps an advertisement for the Florentine silk industry, which had fallen in popularity in the first difficult years of the sixteenth century and was revived in the reign of Cosimo I. The precious golden belt, decorated with jewels and beads with a tassel, may have been made by the goldsmith Benvenuto Cellini.. 
Portrait of Giovanna Tornabuoni. Author Name: Domenico Ghirlandaio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Giovanna Tornabuoni is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Domenico Ghirlandaio, executed in 1488 and located in the Museo Thyssen-Bornemisza, Madrid.. The Portrait of Giovanna Tornabuoni is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Domenico Ghirlandaio, executed in 1488 and located in the Museo Thyssen-Bornemisza, Madrid.. 
Wedding dress of Grace Kelly. Author Name: Helen Rose. . . The wedding dress of the American actress Grace Kelly, worn during her wedding to Prince Rainer III of Monaco on 19 April 1956, is cited as one of the most elegant and best-remembered bridal gowns of all time, and one of the most famous since the mid 20th century. One author describes the dress as "adding to the marital fervor and elevating matrimonial fashion" and a major influence on women who strove to "emulate Kelly's peau de soie and lace masterpiece". It was designed by Helen Rose of MGM. The dress consisted of a bodice with an attached under-bodice and skirt support. There were two petticoats, one being an attached foundation. The wedding attire included a headdress, veil, shoes and the lace- and pearl-encrusted prayer book which she carried down the aisle. To celebrate the 50th ann. The wedding dress of the American actress Grace Kelly, worn during her wedding to Prince Rainer III of Monaco on 19 April 1956, is cited as one of the most elegant and best-remembered bridal gowns of all time, and one of the most famous since the mid 20th century. One author describes the dress as "adding to the marital fervor and elevating matrimonial fashion" and a major influence on women who strove to "emulate Kelly's peau de soie and lace masterpiece". It was designed by Helen Rose of MGM. The dress consisted of a bodice with an attached under-bodice and skirt support. There were two petticoats, one being an attached foundation. The wedding attire included a headdress, veil, shoes and the lace- and pearl-encrusted prayer book which she carried down the aisle. To celebrate the 50th anniversary of the wedding, the Philadelphia Museum of Art (which now owns the dress) displayed it at the museum between 1 April and 21 May 2006 and reported it to have been arguably its most popular exhibit. Some 50 years on, the dress is still influential; the wedding dress that Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge, wore on 29 April 2011 was said to have been inspired by it.. 
Tobias and the Angel. Author Name: Andrea del Verrocchio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Tobias and the Angel is an altar painting, finished around 1470–1475, attributed to the workshop of the Italian Renaissance painter Andrea del Verrocchio. It is housed in the National Gallery, London. This painting is similar to an earlier painting depicting Tobias and the Angel, by Antonio del Pollaiolo.. Tobias and the Angel is an altar painting, finished around 1470–1475, attributed to the workshop of the Italian Renaissance painter Andrea del Verrocchio. It is housed in the National Gallery, London. This painting is similar to an earlier painting depicting Tobias and the Angel, by Antonio del Pollaiolo. According to Oxford art historian Martin Kemp, Leonardo da Vinci, who was a member of Verrocchio's studio, may have painted some part of this work, most likely the fish. David Alan Brown, of the National Gallery in Washington, attributes the painting of the fluffy little dog to him as well. If so, this would be perhaps the first extant example of a painting with input by Leonardo.. 
Urban Life. Author Name: Valérie Goutard. . . 'Urban Life' is a bronze sculpture by French artist Val. In 2010, this monumental piece was exhibited in front of the Shanghai Art Fair and presented to the Jing'An International Sculpture Project.Another edition of the same sculpture is erected at Jingan Kerry Center in Shanghai.. 'Urban Life' is a bronze sculpture by French artist Val. In 2010, this monumental piece was exhibited in front of the Shanghai Art Fair and presented to the Jing'An International Sculpture Project.Another edition of the same sculpture is erected at Jingan Kerry Center in Shanghai.. 
Job. Author Name: Shea, Judith. . . Job is a bronze sculpture, created by American artist Judith Shea. It is located on the Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis (IUPUI) campus in Indianapolis, Indiana. The piece was created in 2005 and placed on loan at Herron School of Art and Design for the school's first Public Sculpture Invitational, held between May 2005 and August 2006. In 2008, Herron acquired Job, with financial support from Jane Fortune, Dr. Robert Hesse, William Fortune Jr., and Joseph Blakley.. Job is a bronze sculpture, created by American artist Judith Shea. It is located on the Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis (IUPUI) campus in Indianapolis, Indiana. The piece was created in 2005 and placed on loan at Herron School of Art and Design for the school's first Public Sculpture Invitational, held between May 2005 and August 2006. In 2008, Herron acquired Job, with financial support from Jane Fortune, Dr. Robert Hesse, William Fortune Jr., and Joseph Blakley.. 
Waterfall in a Mountainous Landscape with a Ruined Castle. Author Name: Jacob van Ruisdael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_Golden_Age_painting. . Waterfall in a Mountainous Landscape with a Ruined Castle (c. 1665-70) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch landscape painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Mount Stuart House.This scene is very similar to other paintings Ruisdael made in this period and these often served as inspiration for later painters of landscape.. Waterfall in a Mountainous Landscape with a Ruined Castle (c. 1665-70) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch landscape painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Mount Stuart House. This painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1911, who wrote; "760. A HILLY LANDSCAPE WITH A WATERFALL AND A RUINED CASTLE. Sm. 198. A ruined castle stands on a high rocky hill to the right. In the left foreground a stream, on whose rocky banks grow firs, forms a waterfall and flows along the foot of the hill. A great fir stands on a bank ; some felled trees lie near. To the right are two houses amid trees at the foot of the castle-hill. In the left distance is a mountain. In the style of A. van Everdingen. "This capital production of art is painted in a broad free manner, and possesses great force and effect " (Sm.). Canvas, 47 inches by 71 inches. In the collection of the Marquess of Bute, London, Richter's 1884 catalogue, No. 145 ; it was in that collection in 1835 (Sm.), and was mentioned by Waagen in 1854 (iii. 481)." This scene is very similar to other paintings Ruisdael made in this period and these often served as inspiration for later painters of landscape.. 
One Nation Under CCTV. Author Name: Banksy. . . One Nation Under CCTV is a mural by graffiti artist Banksy. In 2008, the Westminster City Council ordered its removal.. One Nation Under CCTV is a mural by graffiti artist Banksy. In 2008, the Westminster City Council ordered its removal.. 
Triptych of the Temptation of St. Anthony. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . The Triptych of Temptation of St. Anthony is an oil painting on wood panels by the Early Netherlandish painter Hieronymus Bosch, dating from around 1501. The work tells the story of the mental and spiritual torments endured by Saint Anthony the Great (Anthony Abbott), one of the most prominent of the Desert Fathers of Egypt in the late 3rd and early 4th centuries. The Temptation of St. Anthony was a popular subject in Medieval and Renaissance art. In common with many of Bosch's works, the triptych contains much fantastic imagery. The painting hangs in the Museu Nacional de Arte Antiga in Lisbon.. The Triptych of Temptation of St. Anthony is an oil painting on wood panels by the Early Netherlandish painter Hieronymus Bosch, dating from around 1501. The work tells the story of the mental and spiritual torments endured by Saint Anthony the Great (Anthony Abbott), one of the most prominent of the Desert Fathers of Egypt in the late 3rd and early 4th centuries. The Temptation of St. Anthony was a popular subject in Medieval and Renaissance art. In common with many of Bosch's works, the triptych contains much fantastic imagery. The painting hangs in the Museu Nacional de Arte Antiga in Lisbon.. 
Ab ovo. Author Name: Paul Klee. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Bauhaus. . Ab ovo is a 1917 painting by Paul Klee (1879–1940), which is particularly noteworthy for its sophisticated technique. It employs watercolor on gauze and paper with a chalk ground, which produces a rich texture of triangular, circular, and crescent patterns.. Ab ovo is a 1917 painting by Paul Klee (1879–1940), which is particularly noteworthy for its sophisticated technique. It employs watercolor on gauze and paper with a chalk ground, which produces a rich texture of triangular, circular, and crescent patterns.. 
The Battle of the Boyne. Author Name: Benjamin West. . . The Battle of the Boyne is a 1778 historical painting by the Anglo-American artist Benjamin West. It portrays the Battle of the Boyne which took place in Ireland in 1690. West's depiction of William of Orange on his white horse became the iconic image of liberation from Catholic Ireland; the painting was widely copied and distributed throughout the nineteenth century.. The Battle of the Boyne is a 1778 historical painting by the Anglo-American artist Benjamin West. It portrays the Battle of the Boyne which took place in Ireland in 1690. West's depiction of William of Orange on his white horse became the iconic image of liberation from Catholic Ireland; the painting was widely copied and distributed throughout the nineteenth century.. 
Angel with the Crown of Thorns. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Angel with the Crown of Thorns is a statue by Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Originally commissioned by Pope Clement IX for the Ponte Sant'Angelo project, the statue was replaced with a copy and the original was moved to Sant'Andrea delle Fratte in Rome, Italy. The statue was started in 1667 and completed in 1669. A terracotta modello for the sculpture is held by the musée du Louvre in Paris.. Angel with the Crown of Thorns is a statue by Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Originally commissioned by Pope Clement IX for the Ponte Sant'Angelo project, the statue was replaced with a copy and the original was moved to Sant'Andrea delle Fratte in Rome, Italy. The statue was started in 1667 and completed in 1669. A terracotta modello for the sculpture is held by the musée du Louvre in Paris.. 
Et in Arcadia ego. Author Name: Nicolas Poussin. . Author Movement: Baroque. . Et in Arcadia ego (also known as Les bergers d'Arcadie or The Arcadian Shepherds) is a 1637–38 painting by Nicolas Poussin (1594–1665). It depicts a pastoral scene with idealized shepherds from classical antiquity clustering around an austere tomb. It is held in the Louvre, Paris.Poussin painted two versions of the subject under the same title; his earlier version, painted in 1627, is held at Chatsworth House. An earlier treatment of the theme was painted by Guercino circa 1618–22, also titled Et in Arcadia ego.. Et in Arcadia ego (also known as Les bergers d'Arcadie or The Arcadian Shepherds) is a 1637–38 painting by Nicolas Poussin (1594–1665). It depicts a pastoral scene with idealized shepherds from classical antiquity clustering around an austere tomb. It is held in the Louvre, Paris. Poussin painted two versions of the subject under the same title; his earlier version, painted in 1627, is held at Chatsworth House. An earlier treatment of the theme was painted by Guercino circa 1618–22, also titled Et in Arcadia ego.. 
The Café-Concert. Author Name: Édouard Manet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Impressionist painter, Édouard Manet often captured café scenes depicting social life at the end of the nineteenth century as depicted in this painting, The Café-Concert.. Impressionist painter, Édouard Manet often captured café scenes depicting social life at the end of the nineteenth century as depicted in this painting, The Café-Concert.. 
Erasistratus Discovering the Cause of Antiochus' Disease. Author Name: Jacques-Louis David. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . Erasistratus Discovering the Cause of Antiochus' Disease (French: Érasistrate découvrant la cause de la maladie d’Antiochius dans son amour pour Stratonice) is a 1774 oil painting by French neoclassical artist Jacques-Louis David. The work is a history painting depicting an episode from Plutarch's Lives in which Greek court physician Erasistratus diagnoses the illness of Antiochus, the son of Seleucus I, as lovesickness for his stepmother Stratonice. The painting was awarded the 1774 Prix de Rome by the Académie royale de peinture et de sculpture.. Erasistratus Discovering the Cause of Antiochus' Disease (French: Érasistrate découvrant la cause de la maladie d’Antiochius dans son amour pour Stratonice) is a 1774 oil painting by French neoclassical artist Jacques-Louis David. The work is a history painting depicting an episode from Plutarch's Lives in which Greek court physician Erasistratus diagnoses the illness of Antiochus, the son of Seleucus I, as lovesickness for his stepmother Stratonice. The painting was awarded the 1774 Prix de Rome by the Académie royale de peinture et de sculpture.. 
The Trinity. Author Name: St. Andrei Rublev. . . The Trinity (Russian: Троица,  Troitsa, also called The Hospitality of Abraham) is an icon created by a Russian painter Andrei Rublev in the 15th century. It is his most famous work, and the most famous of all Russian icons, regarded as one of the highest achievements of Russian art. Scholars believe that is it one of only two works of art (the second being the Dormition Cathedral frescoes in Vladimir) that can be attributed to Rublev with any sort of certainty.. The Trinity (Russian: Троица, Troitsa, also called The Hospitality of Abraham) is an icon created by a Russian painter Andrei Rublev in the 15th century. It is his most famous work, and the most famous of all Russian icons, regarded as one of the highest achievements of Russian art. Scholars believe that is it one of only two works of art (the second being the Dormition Cathedral frescoes in Vladimir) that can be attributed to Rublev with any sort of certainty. The Trinity depicts the three angels who visited Abraham at the Oak of Mamre (Genesis 18:1–8), but the painting is full of symbolism and is interpreted as an icon of the Holy Trinity. At the times of Andrei Rublev the Holy Trinity was the embodiment of spiritual unity, peace, harmony, mutual love and humility. The icon was commissioned to honour the saint Sergius of Radonezh of the Trinity Lavra of St. Sergius near Moscow (now in the town of Sergiyev Posad). Little is known about The Trinity's history, art historians can only make suggestions based on few known facts. Even the authorship of Rublev is questioned sometimes. Various authors suggest different dates, such as 1408-1425, 1422-1423 or 1420-1427. The official version states 1411 or 1425-27. The Trinity is currently held in the Tretyakov Gallery in Moscow.. 
Cupid Making His Bow. Author Name: Parmigianino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . Cupid Making His Bow (c. 1533–1535) is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance artist Parmigianino. It is housed in the Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna, Austria.. Cupid Making His Bow (c. 1533–1535) is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance artist Parmigianino. It is housed in the Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna, Austria.. 
Bubbles. Author Name: Sir John Everett Millais, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pre-Raphaelite_Brotherhood. . Bubbles, originally titled A Child's World, is a painting by Sir John Everett Millais that became famous when it was used over many generations in advertisements for Pears soap. During Millais's lifetime it led to widespread debate about the relationship between art and advertising.. Bubbles, originally titled A Child's World, is a painting by Sir John Everett Millais that became famous when it was used over many generations in advertisements for Pears soap. During Millais's lifetime it led to widespread debate about the relationship between art and advertising.. 
The Coronation of Napoleon. Author Name: Jacques-Louis David. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . The Coronation of Napoleon (French: Le Sacre de Napoléon) is a painting completed in 1807 by Jacques-Louis David, the official painter of Napoleon.The painting has imposing dimensions, as it is almost 10 metres (33 ft) wide by a little over 6 metres (20 ft) tall. The crowning and the coronation took place at Notre-Dame de Paris.. The Coronation of Napoleon (French: Le Sacre de Napoléon) is a painting completed in 1807 by Jacques-Louis David, the official painter of Napoleon.The painting has imposing dimensions, as it is almost 10 metres (33 ft) wide by a little over 6 metres (20 ft) tall. The crowning and the coronation took place at Notre-Dame de Paris.. 
Christ of Saint John of the Cross. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Christ of Saint John of the Cross is a painting by Salvador Dalí made in 1951. It depicts Jesus Christ on the cross in a darkened sky floating over a body of water complete with a boat and fishermen. Although it is a depiction of the crucifixion, it is devoid of nails, blood, and a crown of thorns, because, according to Dalí, he was convinced by a dream that these features would mar his depiction of Christ. Also in a dream, the importance of depicting Christ in the extreme angle evident in the painting was revealed to him.. Christ of Saint John of the Cross is a painting by Salvador Dalí made in 1951. It depicts Jesus Christ on the cross in a darkened sky floating over a body of water complete with a boat and fishermen. Although it is a depiction of the crucifixion, it is devoid of nails, blood, and a crown of thorns, because, according to Dalí, he was convinced by a dream that these features would mar his depiction of Christ. Also in a dream, the importance of depicting Christ in the extreme angle evident in the painting was revealed to him.. 
The Three Dancers. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The Three Dancers (French: Les Trois Danseuses) is a painting by Spanish artist Pablo Picasso, painted in June 1925. It is an oil on canvas and measures 84.8 in x 56 in (215.3 cm x 142.2 cm).. The Three Dancers (French: Les Trois Danseuses) is a painting by Spanish artist Pablo Picasso, painted in June 1925. It is an oil on canvas and measures 84.8 in x 56 in (215.3 cm x 142.2 cm).. 
The Negress. Author Name: Jean-Baptiste Carpeaux. . . The Negress is a bronze sculpture by French artist Jean-Baptiste Carpeaux. It is now in the permanent collection at the Indianapolis Museum of Art.. The Negress is a bronze sculpture by French artist Jean-Baptiste Carpeaux. It is now in the permanent collection at the Indianapolis Museum of Art.. 
Il Grande Cretto. Author Name: Alberto Burri. . . The Cretto di Burri (crack of Burri) or Cretto di Gibellina (crack of Gibellina), also known as "The Great Cretto", is a landscape artwork which undertaken by Alberto Burri in 1984 and was left in in an unfinished state in 1989 (due to lack of funds), based on the old city of Gibellina. The original city of Gibellina was completely destroyed in the earthquake of Belice, 14 January 1968. Gibellina has since been rebuilt, about 20 km from the city's original location. In 2015 to mark what would have been Burri's one hundredth birthday the work was completed at last.. The Cretto di Burri (crack of Burri) or Cretto di Gibellina (crack of Gibellina), also known as "The Great Cretto", is a landscape artwork which undertaken by Alberto Burri in 1984 and was left in in an unfinished state in 1989 (due to lack of funds), based on the old city of Gibellina. The original city of Gibellina was completely destroyed in the earthquake of Belice, 14 January 1968. Gibellina has since been rebuilt, about 20 km from the city's original location. In 2015 to mark what would have been Burri's one hundredth birthday the work was completed at last. The work is the subject of a short documentary by the Dutch filmmaker Petra Noordkamp which was created as commissioned by the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum to be screened at the Alberto Burri retrospective held at the institution from October 9, 2015 until January 6, 2016.. 
Tarquin and Lucretia. Author Name: Titian. . . Tarquin and Lucretia is an oil painting attributed to Titian, dated to around 1515 and now held at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna. The attribution to this artist is traditional but uncertain - the brightened palette suggests it could instead be by Palma il Vecchio. However, most identify the painting as part of Titian's series of half-length female figures from 1514 to 1515, which also includes the Flora at the Uffizi, the Woman with a Mirror at the Louvre, the Violante and the Young woman in a black dress in Vienna, Vanity in Munich and the Salome at the Galleria Doria Pamphilj.. Tarquin and Lucretia is an oil painting attributed to Titian, dated to around 1515 and now held at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna. The attribution to this artist is traditional but uncertain - the brightened palette suggests it could instead be by Palma il Vecchio. However, most identify the painting as part of Titian's series of half-length female figures from 1514 to 1515, which also includes the Flora at the Uffizi, the Woman with a Mirror at the Louvre, the Violante and the Young woman in a black dress in Vienna, Vanity in Munich and the Salome at the Galleria Doria Pamphilj. It may be the painting mentioned by Ridolfi in 1648 as being in the gallery of Charles I of England, whose Italian paintings mainly came from his purchase of the Gonzaga collection in Mantua. From there, it passed to the collection of Archduke Leopold Wilhelm of Austria. It shows Lucretia committing suicide to wash away the shame at her rape by Tarquinius Superbus, making her the model of female virtus. Her face looks up to the divine illumination coming from above, giving her the strength to commit the act. As in other treatments of the subject, there are sensual elements, such as Lucretia's falling robe and almost-bared breast. The robe's green is particularly bright, witnessing to the high quality of pigments available in Venice.. 
Lamentation of Christ. Author Name: Gerard David. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . The Lamentation of Christ is a painting by the painter and manuscript illuminator Gerard David, originally a wing of a now dismantled and lost altarpiece.. The Lamentation of Christ is a painting by the painter and manuscript illuminator Gerard David, originally a wing of a now dismantled and lost altarpiece.. 
Untitled. Author Name: Fleischner, Richard. . . Untitled is a public art installation by Richard Fleischner located in a courtyard adjacent to the Alewife station on the MBTA Red Line in northwest Cambridge, Massachusetts. The artwork - an environmental piece consisting of granite block designs among a landscape - cost $40,000 to create in 1985.. Untitled is a public art installation by Richard Fleischner located in a courtyard adjacent to the Alewife station on the MBTA Red Line in northwest Cambridge, Massachusetts. The artwork - an environmental piece consisting of granite block designs among a landscape - cost $40,000 to create in 1985.. 
Two Crabs. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Two Crabs is an 1889 oil painting by Vincent van Gogh. It is a still life of two crabs, one on its back and one upright, with a green background. The work is oil on canvas of 47 cm (19 in) high and 61 cm (24 in) wide.Van Gogh is thought to have painted this work after his hospital release in January 1889. It was possibly inspired by a Japanese print of a crab by Hokusai that he had seen in the magazine Le Japon Artistique, that his brother Theo van Gogh had sent him in September 1888.The painting is on display in room 45 of the National Gallery in London, on loan from a private collector.. Two Crabs is an 1889 oil painting by Vincent van Gogh. It is a still life of two crabs, one on its back and one upright, with a green background. The work is oil on canvas of 47 cm (19 in) high and 61 cm (24 in) wide. Van Gogh is thought to have painted this work after his hospital release in January 1889. It was possibly inspired by a Japanese print of a crab by Hokusai that he had seen in the magazine Le Japon Artistique, that his brother Theo van Gogh had sent him in September 1888. The painting is on display in room 45 of the National Gallery in London, on loan from a private collector.. 
Samson and Delilah. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Samson and Delilah is a painting by the Flemish Baroque painter Peter Paul Rubens (1577–1640). It dates from about 1609 to 1610.. Samson and Delilah is a painting by the Flemish Baroque painter Peter Paul Rubens (1577–1640). It dates from about 1609 to 1610.. 
Autoportrait. Author Name: Tamara de Lempicka. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Art_Deco. . Autoportrait (Tamara in a Green Bugatti) is a self-portrait painting done by Polish artist Tamara de Lempicka. This oil-on-panel, 35x27cm painting was one of her smaller portraitures but gained her reputable titles in the art world such as “baron with a brush”, “modern Venus”, “female painter of females”, and more. In many of her paintings, including Autoportrait, there is a presence of alluring Caravaggesque lighting and a perfect balance of both delicacy and strength as if her subjects were painted with a sculptor’s eye. In 1929, after having the painting published as the cover of Die Dame, a German fashion magazine; her self-portrait became known as the “hymn of the modern woman” for it would inspire the imagery of an emancipated woman.. Autoportrait (Tamara in a Green Bugatti) is a self-portrait painting done by Polish artist Tamara de Lempicka. This oil-on-panel, 35x27cm painting was one of her smaller portraitures but gained her reputable titles in the art world such as “baron with a brush”, “modern Venus”, “female painter of females”, and more. In many of her paintings, including Autoportrait, there is a presence of alluring Caravaggesque lighting and a perfect balance of both delicacy and strength as if her subjects were painted with a sculptor’s eye. In 1929, after having the painting published as the cover of Die Dame, a German fashion magazine; her self-portrait became known as the “hymn of the modern woman” for it would inspire the imagery of an emancipated woman.. 
La Chasse. Author Name: Albert Gleizes. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_art. . La Chasse, also referred to as The Hunt, is a painting created in 1911 by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes. The work was exhibited at the 1911 Salon d'Automne (no. 610); Jack of Diamonds, Moscow, 1912; the Salon de la Société Normande de Peinture Moderne, Rouen, summer 1912; the Salon de la Section d'Or, Galerie La Boétie, 1912 (no. 37), Le Cubisme, Musée National d'Art Moderne, Paris, 1953 (no. 64 bis), and several major exhibitions during subsequent years.In 1913 the painting was reproduced in Les Peintres Cubistes, Méditations esthétiques by Guillaume Apollinaire.. La Chasse, also referred to as The Hunt, is a painting created in 1911 by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes. The work was exhibited at the 1911 Salon d'Automne (no. 610); Jack of Diamonds, Moscow, 1912; the Salon de la Société Normande de Peinture Moderne, Rouen, summer 1912; the Salon de la Section d'Or, Galerie La Boétie, 1912 (no. 37), Le Cubisme, Musée National d'Art Moderne, Paris, 1953 (no. 64 bis), and several major exhibitions during subsequent years. In 1913 the painting was reproduced in Les Peintres Cubistes, Méditations esthétiques by Guillaume Apollinaire. Executed in a highly dynamic Cubist style, with multiple faceted views, the work nevertheless retains recognizable elements relative to its subject matter.. 
Village Fête. Author Name: Claude Lorrain. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Village Fête (or in Fr. La Fête villageoise) is an oil-on-canvas by French artist of the Baroque Claude Lorrain (real name Claude Gellée), painted in 1639 and given to Louis XIV in 1693 together with its companion Seaport at Sunset, by landscape architect and gardener André Le Nôtre. It is currently held and exhibited at the Louvre in Paris.. Village Fête (or in Fr. La Fête villageoise) is an oil-on-canvas by French artist of the Baroque Claude Lorrain (real name Claude Gellée), painted in 1639 and given to Louis XIV in 1693 together with its companion Seaport at Sunset, by landscape architect and gardener André Le Nôtre. It is currently held and exhibited at the Louvre in Paris.. 
Nevsky Prospekt. Author Name: Gleb Alexandrovich Savinov. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Nevsky Prospekt is a cityscape painting by Gleb Savinov (Russian: Глеб Александрович Савинов)(1915-2000), Russian painter and art educator, a member of the Saint Petersburg Union of Artists (before 1992 the Leningrad branch of Union of Artists of Russian Federation), who lived and worked in Saint Petersburg (former Leningrad), regarded as one of the leading representatives of the Leningrad School of Painting  most famous for his genre and portrait painting. The cityscape depicts the life of the main street of Leningrad in summer day of the mid-1980s.. Nevsky Prospekt is a cityscape painting by Gleb Savinov (Russian: Глеб Александрович Савинов)(1915-2000), Russian painter and art educator, a member of the Saint Petersburg Union of Artists (before 1992 the Leningrad branch of Union of Artists of Russian Federation), who lived and worked in Saint Petersburg (former Leningrad), regarded as one of the leading representatives of the Leningrad School of Painting most famous for his genre and portrait painting. The cityscape depicts the life of the main street of Leningrad in summer day of the mid-1980s.. 
Indianapolis Island. Author Name: Andrea Zittel. . . Indianapolis Island is a public artwork by American artist Andrea Zittel, located in the 100 Acres: The Virginia B. Fairbanks Art and Nature Park, in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. The artwork consists of an inhabitable, white fiberglass structure that is mounted onto a floating dock system and installed in the 100 Acres lake. Each summer season it is occupied by resident(s) who can choose to modify the island's structure and interior design according to his or her own individual needs.. Indianapolis Island is a public artwork by American artist Andrea Zittel, located in the 100 Acres: The Virginia B. Fairbanks Art and Nature Park, in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. The artwork consists of an inhabitable, white fiberglass structure that is mounted onto a floating dock system and installed in the 100 Acres lake. Each summer season it is occupied by resident(s) who can choose to modify the island's structure and interior design according to his or her own individual needs.. 
Madonna of the Yarnwinder. Author Name: Leonardo da Vinci. . . The Madonna of the Yarnwinder (Italian: Madonna dei Fusi, “Madonna of the Spindles”) is a subject depicted by Leonardo da Vinci in at least one, and perhaps two paintings begun in 1499 or later. Leonardo was recorded as being at work on one such picture in Florence in 1501 for Florimond Robertet, a secretary to King Louis XII of France. This may have been delivered to the French court in 1507, though scholars are divided on this point. The subject is known today from several versions of which two, called the Buccleuch Madonna and the Lansdowne Madonna, are thought to be partly by Leonardo’s hand. The underdrawings of both paintings show similar experimental changes made to the composition (or pentimenti), suggesting that both evolved concurrently in Leonardo’s workshop.. The Madonna of the Yarnwinder (Italian: Madonna dei Fusi, “Madonna of the Spindles”) is a subject depicted by Leonardo da Vinci in at least one, and perhaps two paintings begun in 1499 or later. Leonardo was recorded as being at work on one such picture in Florence in 1501 for Florimond Robertet, a secretary to King Louis XII of France. This may have been delivered to the French court in 1507, though scholars are divided on this point. The subject is known today from several versions of which two, called the Buccleuch Madonna and the Lansdowne Madonna, are thought to be partly by Leonardo’s hand. The underdrawings of both paintings show similar experimental changes made to the composition (or pentimenti), suggesting that both evolved concurrently in Leonardo’s workshop. The composition shows the Virgin Mary seated in a landscape with the Christ child, who gazes at a yarnwinder used to collect spun yarn. The yarnwinder serves both as a symbol of Mary's domesticity and as a foreshadowing of the Cross on which Christ was crucified. The painting's dynamic composition and implied narrative was highly influential on later High Renaissance depictions of the Madonna and Child by artists such as Raphael and Andrea del Sarto.. 
Adoration of the Magi. Author Name: Andrea Mantegna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Adoration of the Magi is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Andrea Mantegna, from 1462.Together with The Ascension and The Circumcision, it forms a triptych created in 1827 at the Uffizi, where the picture can still be seen. The three works were acquired by the Medici in 1588 by the Gonzaga, whose member Ludovico had commissioned them to Mantegna in the 1460s for the Chapel of the Castle of St. George in Mantua (together with the Death of the Virgin, now in the Museo del Prado).Another version of the painting sold for the then record price of $10.5 million in 1985.. The Adoration of the Magi is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Andrea Mantegna, from 1462. Together with The Ascension and The Circumcision, it forms a triptych created in 1827 at the Uffizi, where the picture can still be seen. The three works were acquired by the Medici in 1588 by the Gonzaga, whose member Ludovico had commissioned them to Mantegna in the 1460s for the Chapel of the Castle of St. George in Mantua (together with the Death of the Virgin, now in the Museo del Prado). The panel with the Adoration of the Magi was probably located in the chapel's apse. The Magi are depicted while descending to the Child's grotto from a path carved out in the rock. The Virgin is portrayed with a crown of angels, according to a Byzantine model. Another version of the painting sold for the then record price of $10.5 million in 1985.. 
The Holy Family with the Dragonfly. Author Name: Albrecht Dürer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Holy Family with the Dragonfly, also known as The Holy Family with the Mayfly, The Holy Family with the Locust and The Holy Family with the Butterfly is an engraving by the German artist Albrecht Dürer (1471-1528) from approximately 1495. It is quite small but full of intricate detail. A very popular image, subject to pirating within five years of creation, it appears in collections, including the Indianapolis Museum of Art and the UK Royal Collection.. The Holy Family with the Dragonfly, also known as The Holy Family with the Mayfly, The Holy Family with the Locust and The Holy Family with the Butterfly is an engraving by the German artist Albrecht Dürer (1471-1528) from approximately 1495. It is quite small but full of intricate detail. A very popular image, subject to pirating within five years of creation, it appears in collections, including the Indianapolis Museum of Art and the UK Royal Collection.. 
Ensueños de Amor. Author Name: Juan Luna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Ensueños de Amor, literally "Daydreams of Love", is a "dreamy" oil on wood painting by Filipino painter and hero Juan Luna. It depicts Luna's wife Maria de la Paz Pardo de Tavera while sound asleep. It is currently a part of the art collection of the Lopez Museum.Measuring 10½ inches × 12¾ inches, it is a contrapposto beneath the cover of bed sheets. The predominant color used by Luna for Ensueños de Amor is white with dashes of pink, green, and blue hues. Luna used rapid brush strokes to express the dreamy mood.. Ensueños de Amor, literally "Daydreams of Love", is a "dreamy" oil on wood painting by Filipino painter and hero Juan Luna. It depicts Luna's wife Maria de la Paz Pardo de Tavera while sound asleep. It is currently a part of the art collection of the Lopez Museum. Measuring 10½ inches × 12¾ inches, it is a contrapposto beneath the cover of bed sheets. The predominant color used by Luna for Ensueños de Amor is white with dashes of pink, green, and blue hues. Luna used rapid brush strokes to express the dreamy mood. The idealism of this painting masks a darker fact in real life, for although Luna was fond of his wife, he was unfortunately also prone to fits of violent jealousy. On September 23, 1892, after accusing her of adultery, he killed his wife and mother-in-law as well as seriously wounding his brother-in-law. Luna was charged with murder but was acquitted shortly thereafter, his deed judged as a crime of passion.. 
The Treachery of Images. Author Name: René Magritte. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Surrealism. . The Treachery of Images (French: La trahison des images [la tʁaizɔ̃ dez imaʒ], 1928–29, sometimes translated as The Treason of Images) is a painting by the Belgian surrealist painter René Magritte.. The Treachery of Images (French: La trahison des images [la tʁaizɔ̃ dez imaʒ], 1928–29, sometimes translated as The Treason of Images) is a painting by the Belgian surrealist painter René Magritte.. 
Flagellation of Christ. Author Name: Piero della Francesca. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Flagellation of Christ (probably 1455–1460) is a painting by Piero della Francesca in the Galleria Nazionale delle Marche in Urbino, Italy. Called by one writer an "enigmatic little painting," the composition is complex and unusual, and its iconography has been the subject of widely differing theories. Kenneth Clark placed The Flagellation in his personal list of the best ten paintings, calling it 'the greatest small painting in the world'.. The Flagellation of Christ (probably 1455–1460) is a painting by Piero della Francesca in the Galleria Nazionale delle Marche in Urbino, Italy. Called by one writer an "enigmatic little painting," the composition is complex and unusual, and its iconography has been the subject of widely differing theories. Kenneth Clark placed The Flagellation in his personal list of the best ten paintings, calling it 'the greatest small painting in the world'.. 
The Hireling Shepherd. Author Name: William Holman Hunt. . . The Hireling Shepherd (1851) is a painting by the Pre-Raphaelite artist William Holman Hunt. It represents a shepherd neglecting his flock in favour of an attractive country girl to whom he shows a death's-head hawkmoth. The meaning of the image has been much debated.. The Hireling Shepherd (1851) is a painting by the Pre-Raphaelite artist William Holman Hunt. It represents a shepherd neglecting his flock in favour of an attractive country girl to whom he shows a death's-head hawkmoth. The meaning of the image has been much debated. Hunt painted the picture when he was working in close collaboration with John Everett Millais, who was painting Ophelia at the same time in the same region of Surrey. Both paintings depict English rural scenes, the innocence of which is disturbed by subtle but profoundly threatening violations of natural harmony. In Hunt's painting, the shepherd ignores his flock of sheep, who wander over a ditch into a wheat field. This violation of boundaries is paralleled by the shepherd's physical intrusions into the personal space of the young woman, who responds in an ambiguous way that might be interpreted as complicity or as a knowing scepticism. As he shows her the moth, he places his arm round her shoulder.. 
A Wheatfield with Cypresses. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . A Wheatfield with Cypresses (occasionally called A Cornfield with Cypresses) is any of three similar 1889 oil paintings by Vincent van Gogh, as part of his wheat field series. All were executed at the Saint-Paul-de-Mausole mental asylum at Saint-Rémy near Arles, France, where Van Gogh was voluntarily a patient from May 1889 to May 1890. The works were inspired by the view from the window at the asylum towards the Alpilles mountains.. A Wheatfield with Cypresses (occasionally called A Cornfield with Cypresses) is any of three similar 1889 oil paintings by Vincent van Gogh, as part of his wheat field series. All were executed at the Saint-Paul-de-Mausole mental asylum at Saint-Rémy near Arles, France, where Van Gogh was voluntarily a patient from May 1889 to May 1890. The works were inspired by the view from the window at the asylum towards the Alpilles mountains. The painting depicts golden fields of ripe wheat, a dark fastigiate Provençal cypress towering like a green obelisk to the right and lighter green olive trees in the middle distance, with hills and mountains visible behind, and white clouds swirling in an azure sky above. The first version (F717) was painted in late June or early July 1889, during a period of frantic painting and shortly after Van Gogh completed The Starry Night, at a time when he was fascinated by the cypress. It is likely to have been painted "en plein air", near the subject, when Van Gogh was able to leave the precincts of the asylum. Van Gogh regarded this work as one of his best summer paintings. In a letter to his brother, Theo, written on 2 July 1889, Vincent described the painting: "I have a canvas of cypresses with some ears of wheat, some poppies, a blue sky like a piece of Scotch plaid; the former painted with a thick impasto like the Monticelli's, and the wheat field in the sun, which represents the extreme heat, very thick too." Van Gogh suffered a bout of severe mental illness in late July and early August, but was able to resume painting in late August and early September 1889. After making a reed-pen drawing of the work, now held by the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam, he copied the composition twice in oils in his studio, one approximately the same size (F615) and a smaller version (F743). The larger studio version was probably painted in a single sitting, with a few minor later adjustments adding touches of yellow and brown. Van Gogh sketched out the design with charcoal underdrawing; he applied thin paint on the cypress trees and sky, with the ground allowed to show in places, and thick impasto for the foreground wheat and the clouds above. Characteristically, he preferred the brilliant white of zinc white (zinc oxide) for the white clouds rather than lead white, despite its poor drying qualities, with his palette also including cobalt blue for the sky, shades of chrome yellow for the wheat field, viridian and emerald green for the bushes and cypresses, and touches of vermilion for the poppies in the foreground and also synthetic ultramarine. The July "plein air" version was much more heavily worked, and may be considered a study for the more considered September studio painting. He sent the smaller and less accomplished studio version to his mother and sister as a gift. Vincent sent the larger July and September versions to his brother in Paris later in September 1889. The July version was sold by Theo's widow in 1900 to artist Émile Schuffenecker. It passed through the hands of collector Alexandre Berthier and art dealer Paul Cassirer in Paris, where it was first exhibited and photographed at Galerie Eugène Druet in November 1909. It was sold to banker Franz von Mendelssohn (1865–1935) in Berlin in 1910 and remained with the Mendelssohn family in Germany and Switzerland until it was sold to industrialist Emil Bührle in Zurich in 1952. His son, Dieter Bührle, sold the painting in 1993 to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York for $57 million using funds donated by publisher, diplomat and philanthropist Walter Annenberg. The National Gallery in London holds a similar version painted in Van Gogh's studio in September 1889, bought with the Courtauld Fund in 1923. It is unlined, and was never varnished or waxed. The third smaller version is held by a private collection (sold at Sotheby's in London in 1970; in the US in 1987).. 
Winston Churchill. Author Name: Nemon, Oscar. . . The statue of Winston Churchill is a standing bronze statue of statesman and writer Winston Churchill, situated in the Members' Lobby of the House of Commons of the United Kingdom, part of the Palace of Westminster complex in Westminster, Central London. Churchill is depicted mid-stride, with his hands on his hips.. The statue of Winston Churchill is a standing bronze statue of statesman and writer Winston Churchill, situated in the Members' Lobby of the House of Commons of the United Kingdom, part of the Palace of Westminster complex in Westminster, Central London. Churchill is depicted mid-stride, with his hands on his hips. Churchill and Nemon first met in Marrakech in 1951, where Nemon sculptured a terracotta bust that Churchill's wife, Lady Clementine Churchill said that it "represents to me my husband as I see him and as I think of him". In 1952, on Churchill's recommendation, Nemon made a bust of him at the request of Elizabeth II for Windsor Castle. Nemon also made a seated bronze sculpture of Churchill for the City of London's Guildhall, which Churchill described as a 'very good likeness' upon its unveiling in 1955.. 
Portrait of Carlo de' Medici. Author Name: Andrea Mantegna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Carlo de' Medici is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Andrea Mantegna, executed in 1466. It is now housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence.. The Portrait of Carlo de' Medici is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Andrea Mantegna, executed in 1466. It is now housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence.. 
''Seated Woman on a Bench. Author Name: Willem de Kooning. . . Seated Woman on a Bench is a bronze sculpture by Willem de Kooning.Modeled in 1972, it was cast in 1976. It is at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.. Seated Woman on a Bench is a bronze sculpture by Willem de Kooning. Modeled in 1972, it was cast in 1976. It is at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.. 
Profile Portrait of a Young Lady. Author Name: Antonio del Pollaiuolo. . . Profile Portrait of a Young Lady is a 1465 half-length portrait, commonly attributed to Italian artist Antonio del Pollaiuolo and painted with oil on poplar wood. A minority of scholars attribute the portrait to another Italian artist, Piero della Francesca. Wilhelm von Bode attributed the painting to Domenico Veneziano, while others think of Alessio Baldovinetti. The emphatic use of line and the clarity of the contrasting colour surfaces are typical features of the Florentine School.A similar portrait, titled Portrait of a Woman, was painted by Pollaiuolo's brother Piero del Pollaiuolo.. Profile Portrait of a Young Lady is a 1465 half-length portrait, commonly attributed to Italian artist Antonio del Pollaiuolo and painted with oil on poplar wood. A minority of scholars attribute the portrait to another Italian artist, Piero della Francesca. Wilhelm von Bode attributed the painting to Domenico Veneziano, while others think of Alessio Baldovinetti. The emphatic use of line and the clarity of the contrasting colour surfaces are typical features of the Florentine School. The identity of the woman on portrait is unknown. She is shown wearing an exquisite brocade dress, while the posture suggests she is sitting in the marble embrasure of a window or balcony. A similar portrait, titled Portrait of a Woman, was painted by Pollaiuolo's brother Piero del Pollaiuolo.. 
Jeunes filles au piano. Author Name: Pierre-Auguste Renoir. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Young Girls at the Piano (French: Jeunes filles au piano) is an oil-on-canvas painting by French artist Pierre-Auguste Renoir, a leading painter in the development of the Impressionist style. The painting was completed in 1892 as an informal commission for the Musée du Luxembourg. Renoir painted three other variations of this composition in oil and two sketches, one in oil and one in pastel. Known by the artist as repetitions, they were executed to fulfill commissions from dealers and collectors. The work is on public display at the Musée d'Orsay in Paris, Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, and the Musée de l'Orangerie in Paris.. Young Girls at the Piano (French: Jeunes filles au piano) is an oil-on-canvas painting by French artist Pierre-Auguste Renoir, a leading painter in the development of the Impressionist style. The painting was completed in 1892 as an informal commission for the Musée du Luxembourg. Renoir painted three other variations of this composition in oil and two sketches, one in oil and one in pastel. Known by the artist as repetitions, they were executed to fulfill commissions from dealers and collectors. The work is on public display at the Musée d'Orsay in Paris, Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, and the Musée de l'Orangerie in Paris.. 
Deux Nus. Author Name: Jean Metzinger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Deux Nus (Two Nudes, Two Women and Dones en un paisatge) is an early Cubist painting by the French artist and theorist Jean Metzinger. The work was exhibited at the first Cubist manifestation, in Room 41 of the 1911 Salon des Indépendants, Paris. At this exhibition the Cubist movement was effectively launched before the general public by five artists: Metzinger, Gleizes, Le Fauconnier, Delaunay and Léger. This was the first exhibition during which artists, writers, critics and the public at large encountered and spoke about Cubism. The result of the group show is a succès de scandale.. Deux Nus (Two Nudes, Two Women and Dones en un paisatge) is an early Cubist painting by the French artist and theorist Jean Metzinger. The work was exhibited at the first Cubist manifestation, in Room 41 of the 1911 Salon des Indépendants, Paris. At this exhibition the Cubist movement was effectively launched before the general public by five artists: Metzinger, Gleizes, Le Fauconnier, Delaunay and Léger. This was the first exhibition during which artists, writers, critics and the public at large encountered and spoke about Cubism. The result of the group show is a succès de scandale. The following year Metzinger's Deux Nus, titled Dones en un paisatge, was exhibited at Galeries J. Dalmau, Exposició d'Art Cubista, in Barcelona, 20 April through 10 May 1912 (cat. 45). This was the first avant-garde art exhibition in Spain. Judging from stylistic similarities with works such as Nu à la cheminée—exhibited in Paris at the Salon d'Automne of 1910—and the fact that Two Nudes was exhibited in the spring of 1911 (18 March - 1 May) at the Salon des Indépendants, the painting is believed to have been painted during the latter half of 1910 or the outset of 1911. Metzinger's Deux Nus (Two Women) is in the permanent collection of the Gothenburg Museum of Art (Göteborgs konstmuseum), Sweden.. 
Corpus. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Corpus (The Body) is a life-size bronze sculpture of the crucified Jesus by Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Cast in 1650, Bernini held onto it in his private collection for 25 years.Corpus is considered one of the artist's "long-lost masterpieces". It is believed that Bernini cast three versions of Corpus. One version was destroyed during the French Revolution, one belonged to the official collection of the royal family of Spain, and one that was recorded in the Perugia region of Italy in 1790 before going missing. The Corpus donated to the Art Gallery of Ontario in Toronto was long believed to have been cast by an unknown French artist. In 2004, following new scholarly studies of the work, Corpus was attributed to Bernini, who cast the sculpture for his personal collection.. Corpus (The Body) is a life-size bronze sculpture of the crucified Jesus by Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Cast in 1650, Bernini held onto it in his private collection for 25 years. Corpus is considered one of the artist's "long-lost masterpieces". It is believed that Bernini cast three versions of Corpus. One version was destroyed during the French Revolution, one belonged to the official collection of the royal family of Spain, and one that was recorded in the Perugia region of Italy in 1790 before going missing. The Corpus donated to the Art Gallery of Ontario in Toronto was long believed to have been cast by an unknown French artist. In 2004, following new scholarly studies of the work, Corpus was attributed to Bernini, who cast the sculpture for his personal collection. After being "lost" for over one hundred years, Corpus surfaced in Venice in 1908. Later it fell into private hands in the United States, but by that time it was misidentified as a work from the school of Giambologna. It was not until 2002 that it was recognized as a Bernini. And it took until 2005 for the provenance to be definitely and directly linked to Bernini. In January 2007, Toronto real estate developer Murray Frum negotiated to buy the sculpture from an art dealer in the United States, and then donated the sculpture to the Art Gallery of Ontario. Corpus is said to be worth $50 million in the current art market.. 
Madonna with Child. Author Name: Giovanni Bellini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Madonna of the Small Trees (Italian: Madonna degli Alberetti) is an oil on panel painting by Italian Renaissance artist Giovanni Bellini, executed in 1487. It is housed in the Accademia Carrara of Bergamo.Stylistic elements, such as the division of the background, suggest that the work was based on Bellini's Alzano Madonna in the same museum.. The Madonna of the Small Trees (Italian: Madonna degli Alberetti) is an oil on panel painting by Italian Renaissance artist Giovanni Bellini, executed in 1487. It is housed in the Accademia Carrara of Bergamo. Stylistic elements, such as the division of the background, suggest that the work was based on Bellini's Alzano Madonna in the same museum.. 
Mr and Mrs Andrews. Author Name: Thomas Gainsborough. . . Mr and Mrs Andrews is an oil on canvas portrait of about 1750 by Thomas Gainsborough, now in the National Gallery, London. Today it is one of his most famous works, but it remained in the family of the sitters until 1960 and was very little known before it appeared in an exhibition in Ipswich in 1927, after which it was regularly requested for other exhibitions in Britain and abroad, and praised by critics for its charm and freshness. By the post-war years its iconic status was established, and it was one of four paintings chosen to represent British art in an exhibition in Paris celebrating the Coronation of Queen Elizabeth II in 1953. Soon the painting began to receive hostile scrutiny as a paradigm of the paternalist and capitalist society of 18th-century England, but it remains a firm . Mr and Mrs Andrews is an oil on canvas portrait of about 1750 by Thomas Gainsborough, now in the National Gallery, London. Today it is one of his most famous works, but it remained in the family of the sitters until 1960 and was very little known before it appeared in an exhibition in Ipswich in 1927, after which it was regularly requested for other exhibitions in Britain and abroad, and praised by critics for its charm and freshness. By the post-war years its iconic status was established, and it was one of four paintings chosen to represent British art in an exhibition in Paris celebrating the Coronation of Queen Elizabeth II in 1953. Soon the painting began to receive hostile scrutiny as a paradigm of the paternalist and capitalist society of 18th-century England, but it remains a firm popular favourite. The work is an unusual combination of two common types of painting of the period: a double portrait, here of a recently married couple, and a landscape view of the English countryside. Gainsborough's work mainly consisted of these two different genres, but their striking combination side-by-side in this extended horizontal format is unique in Gainsborough's oeuvre, and extremely rare in other painters. Conversation piece was the term for a portrait group that contained other elements and activities, but these normally showed more figures, set engaged in some activity or in an interior, rather than a landscape empty of people. Gainsborough was later famously given to complaining that well-paid portrait work kept him away from his true love of landscape painting, and his interest probably combined with that of his clients, a couple from two families whose main income was probably not from landowning, to make a more prominent display than was normal in a portrait of the country estate that had formed part of Mrs Andrews' dowry.. 
Laughing Cavalier. Author Name: Frans Hals. . . The Laughing Cavalier (1624) is a portrait by the Dutch Golden Age painter Frans Hals in the Wallace Collection in London, which has been described as "one of the most brilliant of all Baroque portraits". The title is an invention of the Victorian public and press, dating from its exhibition in the opening display at the Bethnal Green Museum in 1872–75, just after its arrival in England, after which it was regularly reproduced as a print, and became among of the best known old master paintings in Britain. The unknown subject is in fact not laughing, but can be said to have an enigmatic smile, much amplified by his upturned moustache.. The Laughing Cavalier (1624) is a portrait by the Dutch Golden Age painter Frans Hals in the Wallace Collection in London, which has been described as "one of the most brilliant of all Baroque portraits". The title is an invention of the Victorian public and press, dating from its exhibition in the opening display at the Bethnal Green Museum in 1872–75, just after its arrival in England, after which it was regularly reproduced as a print, and became among of the best known old master paintings in Britain. The unknown subject is in fact not laughing, but can be said to have an enigmatic smile, much amplified by his upturned moustache.. 
The Three Ages of Man. Author Name: Giorgione. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Three Ages of Man or Reading a Song is a 1500-01 painting by Giorgione, now displayed at the Galleria Palatina within the Palazzo Pitti in Florence.. The Three Ages of Man or Reading a Song is a 1500-01 painting by Giorgione, now displayed at the Galleria Palatina within the Palazzo Pitti in Florence.. 
Portrait of an elderly man. Author Name: Leonardo da Vinci. . . The portrait of a man in red chalk (circa 1510) in the Biblioteca Reale, Turin is widely, though not universally, accepted as a self portrait of Leonardo da Vinci. It is thought that Leonardo da Vinci drew this self-portrait at about the age of 60. The portrait has been extensively reproduced and has become an iconic representation of Leonardo as a polymath or "Renaissance Man". Despite this, some historians and scholars disagree as to the true identity of the sitter.. The portrait of a man in red chalk (circa 1510) in the Biblioteca Reale, Turin is widely, though not universally, accepted as a self portrait of Leonardo da Vinci. It is thought that Leonardo da Vinci drew this self-portrait at about the age of 60. The portrait has been extensively reproduced and has become an iconic representation of Leonardo as a polymath or "Renaissance Man". Despite this, some historians and scholars disagree as to the true identity of the sitter.. 
Trivulzio Madonna. Author Name: Andrea Mantegna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Trivulzio Madonna is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Andrea Mantegna, executed in 1497. It is housed in the Sforza Castle Pinacoteca of the Castello Sforzesco, Milan.The work portrays the Madonna enthroned surrounded by several saints. The theme of the cherubim surrounding the Madonna is a reference to Annunciation. On the side the saints are surmounted by two citrus trees, the two figures in the foreground are portrayed in order to be observed from a lower position. In the lower centre are three busts of chanting angels around an organ, an allusion the Olivetan church of Santa Maria in Organo at Verona, for which the panel was executed. The current name comes from the Trivulzio Collection of Milan, to which it belonged from 1791 to 1935.. The Trivulzio Madonna is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Andrea Mantegna, executed in 1497. It is housed in the Sforza Castle Pinacoteca of the Castello Sforzesco, Milan. The work portrays the Madonna enthroned surrounded by several saints. The theme of the cherubim surrounding the Madonna is a reference to Annunciation. On the side the saints are surmounted by two citrus trees, the two figures in the foreground are portrayed in order to be observed from a lower position. In the lower centre are three busts of chanting angels around an organ, an allusion the Olivetan church of Santa Maria in Organo at Verona, for which the panel was executed. The current name comes from the Trivulzio Collection of Milan, to which it belonged from 1791 to 1935.. 
Monumentalment IV. Author Name: Freeman, Gary. . . Monumentalment IV is a public sculpture by American artist Gary Freeman. Commissioned in 1979, it was installed in 1981 on the grounds of the Indianapolis Art Center, formerly the Indianapolis Art League, in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. The sculpture was surveyed in 1992 as a part of the Smithsonian's Save Outdoor Sculpture! program. In the mid-1990s the work was relocated to the west side of the IAC's grounds and became part of its ARTSPARK, an outdoor sculpture garden.. Monumentalment IV is a public sculpture by American artist Gary Freeman. Commissioned in 1979, it was installed in 1981 on the grounds of the Indianapolis Art Center, formerly the Indianapolis Art League, in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. The sculpture was surveyed in 1992 as a part of the Smithsonian's Save Outdoor Sculpture! program. In the mid-1990s the work was relocated to the west side of the IAC's grounds and became part of its ARTSPARK, an outdoor sculpture garden.. 
Parnassus. Author Name: Andrea Mantegna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Parnassus is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Andrea Mantegna, executed in 1497. It is housed in the Musée du Louvre of Paris.. The Parnassus is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Andrea Mantegna, executed in 1497. It is housed in the Musée du Louvre of Paris.. 
L'Arbre. Author Name: Albert Gleizes. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_art. . L'Arbre (The Tree), is a painting created in 1910 by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes. Executed in an advanced Proto-Cubist style, the work was exhibited in Paris at the Salon des Indépendants, 1910 (no. 2160), the following year Gleizes chose to exhibit this work at the Salon de la Section d'Or, Galerie La Boétie, 1912 (no. 34), and Manes Moderni Umeni, S.V.U., Vystava, Prague, 1914 (no. 33). The painting was again shown at the Grand Palais, Salon des Indépendants, Trente ans d'art indépendant, in 1926. L'Arbre, an important work of 1910, appeared at the decisive Salon des Indépendants of 1911, where Cubism emerged as a group manifestation and spread like a wave across the globe, shocking the general public in its wake.. L'Arbre (The Tree), is a painting created in 1910 by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes. Executed in an advanced Proto-Cubist style, the work was exhibited in Paris at the Salon des Indépendants, 1910 (no. 2160), the following year Gleizes chose to exhibit this work at the Salon de la Section d'Or, Galerie La Boétie, 1912 (no. 34), and Manes Moderni Umeni, S.V.U., Vystava, Prague, 1914 (no. 33). The painting was again shown at the Grand Palais, Salon des Indépendants, Trente ans d'art indépendant, in 1926. L'Arbre, an important work of 1910, appeared at the decisive Salon des Indépendants of 1911, where Cubism emerged as a group manifestation and spread like a wave across the globe, shocking the general public in its wake.. 
Joseph's Tunic. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Joseph's Tunic is a 1630 painting by Diego Velázquez, now held in the museum of the Sacristía Mayor del Monasterio de San Lorenzo de El Escorial (Madrid, Spain). It was painted in the house of the Spanish ambassador in Rome and brought back to Spain with Apollo in the Forge of Vulcan.. Joseph's Tunic is a 1630 painting by Diego Velázquez, now held in the museum of the Sacristía Mayor del Monasterio de San Lorenzo de El Escorial (Madrid, Spain). It was painted in the house of the Spanish ambassador in Rome and brought back to Spain with Apollo in the Forge of Vulcan.. 
Pin Oak I. Author Name: Henry, John Raymond. . . Pin Oak I is a public art work by artist John Raymond Henry located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture is an abstract form made of aluminum bars painted safety yellow; it has been installed on the lawn.. Pin Oak I is a public art work by artist John Raymond Henry located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture is an abstract form made of aluminum bars painted safety yellow; it has been installed on the lawn.. 
Outskirts of Paris: Road with Peasant Shouldering a Spade. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Outskirts of Paris are paintings that Vincent van Gogh made in 1887, while he was living in Paris with his brother Theo.. Outskirts of Paris are paintings that Vincent van Gogh made in 1887, while he was living in Paris with his brother Theo.. 
Portrait of Cardinal Alessandro Farnese. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Cardinal Alessandro Farnese is a portrait of cardinal Alessandro Farnese (the future Pope Paul III) by Raphael, produced in 1509-11.The cardinal posed near a window with a bright foreground, leading into a dark hall. His delicate right hand holds a letter.The painting resides at the Museo Nazionale di Capodimonte in Naples.. The Portrait of Cardinal Alessandro Farnese is a portrait of cardinal Alessandro Farnese (the future Pope Paul III) by Raphael, produced in 1509-11. The cardinal posed near a window with a bright foreground, leading into a dark hall. His delicate right hand holds a letter. The painting resides at the Museo Nazionale di Capodimonte in Naples.. 
Riding into the Sunset. Author Name: Biggs, Electra Waggoner. . . Riding into the Sunset is a bronze sculpture by Electra Waggoner Biggs, depicting Will Rogers on his horse, Soapsuds. There are four castings, located in Fort Worth, Texas, Claremore, Oklahoma, Lubbock, Texas, and Dallas, Texas.The work was commissioned in 1937, by Amon G. Carter, a friend of Rogers, following Rogers death in 1935. Biggs initially used Soapsuds as her model but was not satisfied with her animal anatomy. While living in New York City, she hired a police horse and model, as well as a veterinarian to check her horse anatomy, to aid in the work's completion.. Riding into the Sunset is a bronze sculpture by Electra Waggoner Biggs, depicting Will Rogers on his horse, Soapsuds. There are four castings, located in Fort Worth, Texas, Claremore, Oklahoma, Lubbock, Texas, and Dallas, Texas. The work was commissioned in 1937, by Amon G. Carter, a friend of Rogers, following Rogers death in 1935. Biggs initially used Soapsuds as her model but was not satisfied with her animal anatomy. While living in New York City, she hired a police horse and model, as well as a veterinarian to check her horse anatomy, to aid in the work's completion.. 
Man with a Glove. Author Name: Titian. . . The Man with a Glove is an oil-on-canvas portrait by the Italian Renaissance artist Titian, c. 1520. It is currently housed in the Musée du Louvre, Paris.. The Man with a Glove is an oil-on-canvas portrait by the Italian Renaissance artist Titian, c. 1520. It is currently housed in the Musée du Louvre, Paris.. 
Portrait of Agnolo Doni. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Agnolo Doni is an oil painting by Italian Renaissance master Raphael, executed between 1506 and 1507. It is currently housed in the Pitti Palace in Florence.. The Portrait of Agnolo Doni is an oil painting by Italian Renaissance master Raphael, executed between 1506 and 1507. It is currently housed in the Pitti Palace in Florence.. 
Mater Dolorosa. Author Name: Titian. . . Mater Dolorosa is a painting of the Mater Dolorosa produced around 1550 or 1555 by the Italian artist Titian and his studio. It is now in the Museo del Prado. It is not to be confused with his c.1554 version of the same subject, also in the Prado.. Mater Dolorosa is a painting of the Mater Dolorosa produced around 1550 or 1555 by the Italian artist Titian and his studio. It is now in the Museo del Prado. It is not to be confused with his c.1554 version of the same subject, also in the Prado.. 
Vision of Saint Jerome. Author Name: Parmigianino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . The Vision of Saint Jerome is a painting by the Italian Mannerist artist Parmigianino, executed in 1526–1527. It is now in the National Gallery, London, United Kingdom.. The Vision of Saint Jerome is a painting by the Italian Mannerist artist Parmigianino, executed in 1526–1527. It is now in the National Gallery, London, United Kingdom.. 
The Rape of Europa. Author Name: Guido Reni. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Rape of Europa is a painting commissioned by Władysław IV Vasa from the Italian artist Guido Reni, completed between 1637 and 1639 and showing the abduction of Europa by Zeus in the form of a bull. It was later collected by Denis Mahon, who loaned it to the National Gallery, where it is still on display.. The Rape of Europa is a painting commissioned by Władysław IV Vasa from the Italian artist Guido Reni, completed between 1637 and 1639 and showing the abduction of Europa by Zeus in the form of a bull. It was later collected by Denis Mahon, who loaned it to the National Gallery, where it is still on display.. 
The Tempi Madonna. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Tempi Madonna is an oil painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael. Painted for the Tempi family, it was bought by Ludwig I of Bavaria in 1829. It is housed in the Alte Pinakothek in Munich. It is thought to have been made in 1508, at the end of the artist's Florentine period.. The Tempi Madonna is an oil painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael. Painted for the Tempi family, it was bought by Ludwig I of Bavaria in 1829. It is housed in the Alte Pinakothek in Munich. It is thought to have been made in 1508, at the end of the artist's Florentine period.. 
Young Omahaw, War Eagle, Little Missouri, and Pawnees. Author Name: Charles Bird King. . . Young Omahaw, War Eagle, Little Missouri, and Pawnees is an 1821 painting by the American portrait artist Charles Bird King (1785–1862), best known for his portrayals of significant Native American leaders and tribesmen.In the painting Chief War Eagle wears a presidential peace medal, valued by Native Americans as a sign of status and worn on all formal occasions. The artist painted the chiefs with a war axe, blood-red face paint, and eagle feathers atop their heads, reinforcing the romantic image of Indians.. Young Omahaw, War Eagle, Little Missouri, and Pawnees is an 1821 painting by the American portrait artist Charles Bird King (1785–1862), best known for his portrayals of significant Native American leaders and tribesmen. The painting portrays Plain Indian chiefs who among many others traveled to Washington to meet with the president to negotiate their territorial rights with the government. At the White House, the Capitol, and in private homes, policymakers employed bribery, dazzle, and intimidation to win the cooperation of these men. In his Seventh Street studio, Charles Bird King painted their portraits, creating a gallery of allies in the government’s plan to settle the Indian question peacefully. In the painting Chief War Eagle wears a presidential peace medal, valued by Native Americans as a sign of status and worn on all formal occasions. The artist painted the chiefs with a war axe, blood-red face paint, and eagle feathers atop their heads, reinforcing the romantic image of Indians.. 
Shearing the Rams. Author Name: Tom Roberts. . . Shearing the Rams is an 1890 painting by the Australian artist Tom Roberts. The painting depicts sheep shearers plying their trade in a timber shearing shed. Distinctly Australian in character, the painting is a celebration of pastoral life and work, especially "strong, masculine labour" and recognises the role that wool-growing played in the development of the country.. Shearing the Rams is an 1890 painting by the Australian artist Tom Roberts. The painting depicts sheep shearers plying their trade in a timber shearing shed. Distinctly Australian in character, the painting is a celebration of pastoral life and work, especially "strong, masculine labour" and recognises the role that wool-growing played in the development of the country. One of the most well known and loved paintings in Australia, Shearing the Rams has been described as a "masterpiece of Australian impressionism" and "the great icon of Australian popular art history". The painting is part of the National Gallery of Victoria's Australian art collection.. 
Self-Portrait. Author Name: Albrecht Dürer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Self-Portrait (or Self-Portrait at Twenty-Eight Years Old Wearing a Coat with Fur Collar) is a painting on wood panel by the German Renaissance artist Albrecht Dürer. Painted early in 1500, just before his 29th birthday, it is the last of his three painted self-portraits. It is considered the most personal, iconic and complex of his self-portraits, and the one that has become fixed in the popular imagination.. Self-Portrait (or Self-Portrait at Twenty-Eight Years Old Wearing a Coat with Fur Collar) is a painting on wood panel by the German Renaissance artist Albrecht Dürer. Painted early in 1500, just before his 29th birthday, it is the last of his three painted self-portraits. It is considered the most personal, iconic and complex of his self-portraits, and the one that has become fixed in the popular imagination. The self-portrait is most remarkable because of its resemblance to many earlier representations of Christ. Art historians note the similarities with the conventions of religious painting, including its symmetry, dark tones and the manner in which the artist directly confronts the viewer and raises his hands to the middle of his chest as if in the act of blessing.. 
Frisbee. Author Name: Farrow, Patrick Villiers. . . Frisbee, is a public artwork by American artist Patrick Villiers Farrow, located on the Middlebury College campus center green, in front of Monroe Hall in Middlebury, Vermont, United States. The overall dimensions of this bronze sculpture are 68 inches (170 cm) tall, 28 inches (71 cm) long, and 36 inches (91 cm) wide. It is attached to an underground concrete foundation. The sculpture was cast by Agros Art Casting Foundry, Brewster, New York and dedicated in 1989.. Frisbee, is a public artwork by American artist Patrick Villiers Farrow, located on the Middlebury College campus center green, in front of Monroe Hall in Middlebury, Vermont, United States. The overall dimensions of this bronze sculpture are 68 inches (170 cm) tall, 28 inches (71 cm) long, and 36 inches (91 cm) wide. It is attached to an underground concrete foundation. The sculpture was cast by Agros Art Casting Foundry, Brewster, New York and dedicated in 1989.. 
Snap the Whip. Author Name: Winslow Homer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Snap the Whip is a 1872 oil painting by Winslow Homer. It depicts a group of children playing a game in a field in front of an old red schoolhouse. With more of America's population moving to cities, this portrait depicts the simplicity of rural agrarian life that Americans began to leave behind in the post-Civil war era.. Snap the Whip is a 1872 oil painting by Winslow Homer. It depicts a group of children playing a game in a field in front of an old red schoolhouse. With more of America's population moving to cities, this portrait depicts the simplicity of rural agrarian life that Americans began to leave behind in the post-Civil war era.. 
Death and the Miser. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . Death and the Miser is a Hieronymus Bosch painting. It is currently in the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. The painting is the inside of the right panel of a divided triptych. The other existing portions of the triptych are The Ship of Fools and Allegory of Gluttony and Lust, while The Wayfarer was painted on the external right panel.Whether or not the miser, in his last moments, will embrace the salvation offered by Christ or cling to his worldly riches, is left uncertain.. Death and the Miser is a Hieronymus Bosch painting. It is currently in the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. The painting is the inside of the right panel of a divided triptych. The other existing portions of the triptych are The Ship of Fools and Allegory of Gluttony and Lust, while The Wayfarer was painted on the external right panel. Death and the Miser belongs to the tradition of the memento mori, works that remind the viewer of the inevitability of death. The painting shows the influence of popular 15th-century handbooks on the art of dying (Ars moriendi), intended to help Christians choose Christ over sinful pleasures. As Death looms, the miser, unable to resist worldly temptations, reaches for the bag of gold offered by a demon, even while an angel points to a crucifix from which a slender beam of light descends. There are references in the painting to dichotomous modes of life. A crucifix is set on the only (small) window of the room. A thin ray of light is directed down to the bottom of the large room, which is darkened. A demon holding an ember lurks over the dying man, waiting for his hour. Death is dressed in flowing robes. In the foreground, Bosch possibly depicts the miser as he was previously, in full health, storing gold in his money chest while clutching his rosary. Symbols of worldly power such as a helmet, sword and shield allude to earthly follies — and hint at the station held by this man during his life, though his final struggle is one he must undergo naked, without arms or armor. The depiction of such still-life objects to symbolize earthly vanity, transience or decay would become a genre in itself among 17th-century Flemish artists. Whether or not the miser, in his last moments, will embrace the salvation offered by Christ or cling to his worldly riches, is left uncertain. Bosch's familiarity with the visual tradition of the Ars Moriendi can be seen in the top left roundel depicting the death of a sinner in The Seven Deadly Sins and the Four Last Things. There are several points of similarity, such as the figure of Death and the juxtaposition of an angel and devil at the headboard.. 
The Ninth Wave. Author Name: Ivan Aivazovsky. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . The Ninth Wave (Russian: Девятый вал, Dyevyatiy val) is an 1850 painting by the Russian Armenian marine painter Ivan Aivazovsky. It is his best known work.The titles refer to the nautical tradition that waves grow larger and larger in a series up to the largest wave, the ninth wave, at which point the series starts again.. The Ninth Wave (Russian: Девятый вал, Dyevyatiy val) is an 1850 painting by the Russian Armenian marine painter Ivan Aivazovsky. It is his best known work. The titles refer to the nautical tradition that waves grow larger and larger in a series up to the largest wave, the ninth wave, at which point the series starts again. It depicts a sea after a night storm and people facing death attempting to save themselves by clinging to debris from a wrecked ship. The painting has warm tones, which reduce the sea's apparent menacing overtones and a chance for the people to survive seems plausible. This painting shows the destructive side, and beauty of nature.. 
Walkways Through the Wall. Author Name: Vito Acconci. . . Walkways Through the Wall is a public artwork by American artist Vito Acconci located at the Frontier Airlines Center, which is near Milwaukee, Wisconsin, in the United States.. Walkways Through the Wall is a public artwork by American artist Vito Acconci located at the Frontier Airlines Center, which is near Milwaukee, Wisconsin, in the United States.. 
Buffalo. Author Name: Alexander Phimister Proctor. . . Buffalo, also known as Buffaloes, Dumbarton Bridge: Buffaloes, and Q Street Buffalo, is a series of monumental sculptures of buffalo by Alexander Phimister Proctor. Four of them are installed at the Dumbarton Bridge in Washington, D.C., in the United States.. Buffalo, also known as Buffaloes, Dumbarton Bridge: Buffaloes, and Q Street Buffalo, is a series of monumental sculptures of buffalo by Alexander Phimister Proctor. Four of them are installed at the Dumbarton Bridge in Washington, D.C., in the United States.. 
The Destroyer. Author Name: Frank Frazetta. . . The Destroyer is a 1971 painting by Frank Frazetta. Notwithstanding the prolific use of the word "Conan" that's been attached to Frazetta's work for many years, none of his paintings bear the "Conan" name. The painting depicts Conan the Barbarian in the act of swinging an axe with dead warriors around him.. The Destroyer is a 1971 painting by Frank Frazetta. Notwithstanding the prolific use of the word "Conan" that's been attached to Frazetta's work for many years, none of his paintings bear the "Conan" name. The painting depicts Conan the Barbarian in the act of swinging an axe with dead warriors around him.. 
The Menaced Assassin. Author Name: René Magritte. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Surrealism. . The Menaced Assassin (French: L'Assassin menacé) is a 1927 oil on canvas painting by Belgian surrealist artist René Magritte.The main subject of the painting, a blood-smeared nude woman, is seen lying on a couch. The assassin of the painting's title, a well-dressed man, stands ready to leave, his coat and hat on a chair next to his bag. He is however delayed by the sound of music, and in an unhurriedly relaxed manner, listens to a gramophone. In the meantime, two men armed with club and net wait in the foyer to ensnare him, as three more men also watch from over the balcony.. The Menaced Assassin (French: L'Assassin menacé) is a 1927 oil on canvas painting by Belgian surrealist artist René Magritte. The main subject of the painting, a blood-smeared nude woman, is seen lying on a couch. The assassin of the painting's title, a well-dressed man, stands ready to leave, his coat and hat on a chair next to his bag. He is however delayed by the sound of music, and in an unhurriedly relaxed manner, listens to a gramophone. In the meantime, two men armed with club and net wait in the foyer to ensnare him, as three more men also watch from over the balcony.. 
Encounter. Author Name: Beasley, Bruce. . . Encounter is an outdoor 2003–2004 painted or treated bronze sculpture by Bruce Beasley, installed in Jordan Schnitzer Museum of Art's north lawn on the University of Oregon campus in Eugene, Oregon, in the United States. According to Beasley, the work's base blocks represent the institution's "foundation – the faculty, library, and research facilities", while its upper blocks symbolize university "activities – learning, questioning, and exposure to arts and ideas". It was funded by the 1% for Art program.. Encounter is an outdoor 2003–2004 painted or treated bronze sculpture by Bruce Beasley, installed in Jordan Schnitzer Museum of Art's north lawn on the University of Oregon campus in Eugene, Oregon, in the United States. According to Beasley, the work's base blocks represent the institution's "foundation – the faculty, library, and research facilities", while its upper blocks symbolize university "activities – learning, questioning, and exposure to arts and ideas". It was funded by the 1% for Art program.. 
Moses. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Moses (Italian: Mosè [moˈzɛ]; c. 1513–1515) is a sculpture by the Italian High Renaissance artist Michelangelo Buonarroti, housed in the church of San Pietro in Vincoli in Rome. Commissioned in 1505 by Pope Julius II for his tomb, it depicts the Biblical figure Moses with horns on his head, based on a description in the Vulgate, the Latin translation of the Bible used at that time.. The Moses (Italian: Mosè [moˈzɛ]; c. 1513–1515) is a sculpture by the Italian High Renaissance artist Michelangelo Buonarroti, housed in the church of San Pietro in Vincoli in Rome. Commissioned in 1505 by Pope Julius II for his tomb, it depicts the Biblical figure Moses with horns on his head, based on a description in the Vulgate, the Latin translation of the Bible used at that time.. 
Portrait of a Young Bride. Author Name: Giorgione. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Laura, formerly sometimes known as Portrait of a Young Bride, is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giorgione, c. 1506. It hangs in the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna, Austria.The portrait depicts a young woman as a bride; most probably her name was Laura. Like Giorgione's other works, it is unsigned, but it is one of the less controversial attributions to Giorgione. An inscription on the reverse, accepted as early 16th-century, identifies Giorgione as the painter and provides the date, making this the only work by the artist bearing a reliable date. Behind the young woman is a branch of laurel (Laurus), symbol of chastity, and carrying the nuptial veil. The gesture of opening the fur mantle uncovers the bosom. This may indicate fecundity (and, therefore, maternity) as an off. Laura, formerly sometimes known as Portrait of a Young Bride, is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giorgione, c. 1506. It hangs in the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna, Austria. The portrait depicts a young woman as a bride; most probably her name was Laura. Like Giorgione's other works, it is unsigned, but it is one of the less controversial attributions to Giorgione. An inscription on the reverse, accepted as early 16th-century, identifies Giorgione as the painter and provides the date, making this the only work by the artist bearing a reliable date. Behind the young woman is a branch of laurel (Laurus), symbol of chastity, and carrying the nuptial veil. The gesture of opening the fur mantle uncovers the bosom. This may indicate fecundity (and, therefore, maternity) as an offer of love and a marriage blessed with children. As the laurel symbolized virtue, so the visible breast could symbolize the bride's conjugal fidelity.It is only from the prudish perspective of the 19th or early 20th century that the baring of a breast would be viewed as meretricious. In the 16th century, nudity did not provoke disapproval, but was shown publicly and uninhibitedly. This painting, too, was publicly shown, probably by a proud noble who wished to celebrate his bride's attractiveness - her full build was entirely in keeping with contemporary Venetian ideals of beauty - as well as her virtue and chastity. The laurel was considered a symbol of virtue, as seen in Lorenzo de' Medici's "impresa", where it was accompanied by the motto: "Ita ut virtus". The veil wound about her shoulders and upper body is a bridal veil, and her bared right breast alludes to the proverbial chastity of the Amazons, who, according to antique legend, tolerated men only as a means of sexual reproduction, not, however, as a means of sexual gratification. Since contemporary morality permitted sexual reproduction only within the institution of marriage, the allusion to the Amazons implied a wife's commitment to conjugal fidelity. Alternatively, the figure might show a courtesan—certainly many of the paintings in the Venetian tradition the Laura inspired were of figures to be read as courtesans, often posing as a mythological figure or the personification of an abstract quality. This work marked Giorgione's abandonment of Giovanni Bellini's models to embrace a Leonardesque style.. 
Gabrielle Cot. Author Name: William-Adolphe Bouguereau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Gabrielle Cot is a portrait oil on canvas painting by William-Adolphe Bouguereau from 1890. Gabrielle Cot was the daughter of the French painter Pierre Auguste Cot, the most notable pupil of Bouguereau. This painting was the only non-commissioned painting he ever painted.. Gabrielle Cot is a portrait oil on canvas painting by William-Adolphe Bouguereau from 1890. Gabrielle Cot was the daughter of the French painter Pierre Auguste Cot, the most notable pupil of Bouguereau. This painting was the only non-commissioned painting he ever painted.. 
The Lone Sailor. Author Name: Bleifeld, Stanley. . . The Lone Sailor, a 1987 bronze sculpture, is a tribute to all the personnel of the sea services. The sculpture was created by Stanley Bleifeld, for the United States Navy Memorial in Washington, D.C.. The Lone Sailor, a 1987 bronze sculpture, is a tribute to all the personnel of the sea services. The sculpture was created by Stanley Bleifeld, for the United States Navy Memorial in Washington, D.C.. 
Vanity. Author Name: Titian. . . Vanity is an oil painting by Italian late Renaissance painter Titian, dated to around 1515 and now held at the Alte Pinakothek in Munich, Germany.. Vanity is an oil painting by Italian late Renaissance painter Titian, dated to around 1515 and now held at the Alte Pinakothek in Munich, Germany.. 
Memorial to Ippolito Merenda. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Memorial to Ippolito Merenda is a funerary monument designed by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini between 1636 and 1638. Along with the similar monument for Alessandro Valtrini, this artwork was a startling new approach to funerary monuments, incorporating dynamic, flowing inscriptions being dragged by a moving figure of death. It is in the church of San Giacomo alla Lungara in Rome.. The Memorial to Ippolito Merenda is a funerary monument designed by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini between 1636 and 1638. Along with the similar monument for Alessandro Valtrini, this artwork was a startling new approach to funerary monuments, incorporating dynamic, flowing inscriptions being dragged by a moving figure of death. It is in the church of San Giacomo alla Lungara in Rome. Merenda was from Cesena in Emilia Romagna. He left a bequest to San Giacomo della Lungara (of 20,000 Roman scudi) on his death in 1636. One of the nephews of the then pope Urban VIII, Cardinal Francesco Barberini, then commissioned the monument from Bernini in recognition of Merenda's contribution.. 
Bench Around the Lake. Author Name: Hein, Jeppe. . . Bench Around the Lake is a public artwork by Danish artist Jeppe Hein, located in the 100 Acres: The Virginia B. Fairbanks Art and Nature Park, in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. The artwork consists of fifteen individually designed yellow interactive bench installations strategically placed throughout the park location. Some of the benches consist of multiple components or sections within one site.. Bench Around the Lake is a public artwork by Danish artist Jeppe Hein, located in the 100 Acres: The Virginia B. Fairbanks Art and Nature Park, in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. The artwork consists of fifteen individually designed yellow interactive bench installations strategically placed throughout the park location. Some of the benches consist of multiple components or sections within one site.. 
The Three Graces. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Three Graces is an oil painting by Italian painter Raphael, housed in the Musée Condé of Chantilly, France. The date of origin has not been positively determined, though it seems to have been painted at some point after his arrival to study with Pietro Perugino in about 1500, possibly 1503-1505. According to James Patrick in 2007's Renaissance and Reformation, the painting represents the first time that Raphael had depicted the nude female form in front and back views.. The Three Graces is an oil painting by Italian painter Raphael, housed in the Musée Condé of Chantilly, France. The date of origin has not been positively determined, though it seems to have been painted at some point after his arrival to study with Pietro Perugino in about 1500, possibly 1503-1505. According to James Patrick in 2007's Renaissance and Reformation, the painting represents the first time that Raphael had depicted the nude female form in front and back views.. 
Lilacs in a Window. Author Name: Mary Cassatt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Lilacs in a Window is a painting by the American painter, printmaker, pastelist, and connoisseur Mary Cassatt. It is one of the few still-lifes she executed. It was originally owned by the Parisian art collector Moyse Dreyfus. Cassatt had been introduced to him by her Impressionist friends, and he became a friend and early patron. Cassatt included a portrait of him, Mr. Moyse Dreyfus, in her show at the Fourth Impressionist Exhibition of 1879.. Lilacs in a Window is a painting by the American painter, printmaker, pastelist, and connoisseur Mary Cassatt. It is one of the few still-lifes she executed. It was originally owned by the Parisian art collector Moyse Dreyfus. Cassatt had been introduced to him by her Impressionist friends, and he became a friend and early patron. Cassatt included a portrait of him, Mr. Moyse Dreyfus, in her show at the Fourth Impressionist Exhibition of 1879.. 
Harvest Threshing. Author Name: Albert Gleizes. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_art. . Le Dépiquage des Moissons, also known as Harvest Threshing, and The Harvesters, is an immense oil painting created in 1912 by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes (1881–1953). It was first revealed to the general public at the Salon de la Section d'Or, Galerie La Boétie in Paris, October 1912 (no. 43). This work, along with La Ville de Paris (City of Paris) by Robert Delaunay, is the largest and most ambitious Cubist painting undertaken during the pre-War Cubist period. Formerly in the collection of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York, this monumental painting by Gleizes is exhibited at the National Museum of Western Art, in Tokyo, Japan.. Le Dépiquage des Moissons, also known as Harvest Threshing, and The Harvesters, is an immense oil painting created in 1912 by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes (1881–1953). It was first revealed to the general public at the Salon de la Section d'Or, Galerie La Boétie in Paris, October 1912 (no. 43). This work, along with La Ville de Paris (City of Paris) by Robert Delaunay, is the largest and most ambitious Cubist painting undertaken during the pre-War Cubist period. Formerly in the collection of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York, this monumental painting by Gleizes is exhibited at the National Museum of Western Art, in Tokyo, Japan.. 
Take your son, Sir!. Author Name: Ford Madox Brown. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pre-Raphaelite_Brotherhood. . Take Your Son, Sir! (1851-6) is an unfinished painting by Ford Madox Brown which depicts a woman showing her newborn son to its father. She is offering her baby towards the viewer of the painting, who is implicitly equated with the father - seen in the mirror behind, opening his arms to receive the baby. The mirror also forms a halo behind the mother's head, and the pattern on the wallpaper suggests the starry heavens. Brown's principal influence was Jan van Eyck's painting the Arnolfini Marriage Portrait, recently acquired by the National Gallery. The mirror resembles the circular mirror in van Eyck's painting, which reflects an image of the artist looking at the couple in the image.. Take Your Son, Sir! (1851-6) is an unfinished painting by Ford Madox Brown which depicts a woman showing her newborn son to its father. She is offering her baby towards the viewer of the painting, who is implicitly equated with the father - seen in the mirror behind, opening his arms to receive the baby. The mirror also forms a halo behind the mother's head, and the pattern on the wallpaper suggests the starry heavens. Brown's principal influence was Jan van Eyck's painting the Arnolfini Marriage Portrait, recently acquired by the National Gallery. The mirror resembles the circular mirror in van Eyck's painting, which reflects an image of the artist looking at the couple in the image. The woman is wearing crinolines, which expand to cover the whole of the lower part of the painting. Brown has left this part incomplete, roughly squaring up and sketching the dress in outline. The title is written on the unfinished dress, underneath the child at the right. Brown's own wife was pregnant whilst he was painting this picture and she gave birth to a son which they named Arthur. Arthur then died at just ten months old and it is considered Brown was unable to complete the painting through grief for his son, so he abandoned it.. 
The Lacemaker. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . The Lacemaker is a painting by the Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer (1632–1675), completed around 1669–1670 and held in the Louvre, Paris. The work shows a young woman dressed in a yellow shawl, holding up a pair of bobbins in her left hand as she carefully places a pin in the pillow on which she is making her bobbin lace. At 24.5 cm x 21 cm (9.6 in x 8.3 in), the work is the smallest of Vermeer's paintings, but in many ways one of his most abstract and unusual. The canvas used was cut from the same bolt as that used for A Young Woman Seated at the Virginals, and both paintings seem to have had identical dimensions originally.. The Lacemaker is a painting by the Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer (1632–1675), completed around 1669–1670 and held in the Louvre, Paris. The work shows a young woman dressed in a yellow shawl, holding up a pair of bobbins in her left hand as she carefully places a pin in the pillow on which she is making her bobbin lace. At 24.5 cm x 21 cm (9.6 in x 8.3 in), the work is the smallest of Vermeer's paintings, but in many ways one of his most abstract and unusual. The canvas used was cut from the same bolt as that used for A Young Woman Seated at the Virginals, and both paintings seem to have had identical dimensions originally. The girl is set against a blank wall, probably because the artist sought to eliminate any external distractions from the central image. As with his The Astronomer (1668) and The Geographer (1669), it is obvious that the artist undertook careful study before he executed the work; the art of lacemaking is portrayed closely and accurately. Vermeer probably used a camera obscura while composing the work: many optical effects typical of photography can be seen, in particular the blurring of the foreground. By rendering areas of the canvas as out-of-focus, Vermeer is able to suggest depth of field in a manner unusual of Dutch Baroque painting of the era. In The Lacemaker, the artist presents in an abstract manner the various elements which compose the girl's face and body and the pattern of the material on which she is working. The girl's hands, the curls of her hair and the T-cross which form her eyes and nose are all described in an abstract manner unusual for the era in which Vermeer worked. In addition, the red and white of the lace is shown as spilling from the sewing cushion with physical properties suggesting a near liquid form. The blurring of these threads contrasts sharply with the precision of the lace she is shown working on. Vermeer's painting is often compared to a 1662 canvas of the same name by the Dutch portrait and genre painter Caspar Netscher. However, Vermeer's work is very different in tone. In the earlier work, both the girl's shoes and the mussel shells near her feet have sexual connotations. In addition, the discarded shoes in Netscher's painting are unlikely to be the girl's own, hinting again at a sexual overtone. According to the art historian Lawrence Gowing,. 
Lebanon. Author Name: Kanso, Nabil. . . Lebanon is a mural size painting by Nabil Kanso depicting the Lebanese Civil War in a scene invoking the spirit and character of the people in the midst of horror and violence gripping the country. Amid the scene of chaos and devastation, two central figures reach across toward each other symbolically to represent the appeal for unity in defiance of the forces of division, destruction, and terror.. Lebanon is a mural size painting by Nabil Kanso depicting the Lebanese Civil War in a scene invoking the spirit and character of the people in the midst of horror and violence gripping the country. Amid the scene of chaos and devastation, two central figures reach across toward each other symbolically to represent the appeal for unity in defiance of the forces of division, destruction, and terror.. 
Max Schmitt in a Single Scull. Author Name: Thomas Eakins. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Max Schmitt in a Single Scull (also known as The Champion Single Sculls or The Champion, Single Sculls) is an 1871 painting by Thomas Eakins in the permanent collection of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Set on the Schuylkill River in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, it celebrates the victory of Eakins's friend Max Schmitt in the October 5, 1870, single sculls competition.. Max Schmitt in a Single Scull (also known as The Champion Single Sculls or The Champion, Single Sculls) is an 1871 painting by Thomas Eakins in the permanent collection of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Set on the Schuylkill River in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, it celebrates the victory of Eakins's friend Max Schmitt in the October 5, 1870, single sculls competition.. 
Sundial, Boy With Spider. Author Name: Paddock, Willard Dryden. . . Sundial, Boy With Spider is an outdoor sculpture and functional sundial by American artist Willard Dryden Paddock (1873–1956). It is located within the Oldfields estate on the grounds of the Indianapolis Museum of Art (IMA), in Indianapolis, Indiana. The bronze sculpture, cast by the Gorham Manufacturing Company, depicts a boy sitting cross-legged with an open scroll in his lap.. Sundial, Boy With Spider is an outdoor sculpture and functional sundial by American artist Willard Dryden Paddock (1873–1956). It is located within the Oldfields estate on the grounds of the Indianapolis Museum of Art (IMA), in Indianapolis, Indiana. The bronze sculpture, cast by the Gorham Manufacturing Company, depicts a boy sitting cross-legged with an open scroll in his lap.. 
The Aviator. Author Name: Gutzon Borglum. . . The Aviator is a historic sculpture located on the University of Virginia campus near Charlottesville, Albemarle County, Virginia.. The Aviator is a historic sculpture located on the University of Virginia campus near Charlottesville, Albemarle County, Virginia.. 
Bust of Francesco I d'Este. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Bust of Francesco I d'Este is a marble portrait bust by the Italian sculptor Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Completed in 1652, the work depicts Francesco I d'Este, Duke of Modena. It is in the Museo Estense, Modena, Italy. The noble yet detached expression of the face, the extensive drapery and the lavish locks of hair are often taken to be emeblematic of the way Bernini represented 'absolute monarchs' as seemingly adopting superior poses, oblvious to their surroundings. A painting of the portrait bust, surrounded by various objects, undertaken by the artist Francesco Stringa in the late 1660s is in the Minneapolis Institute of Art.. The Bust of Francesco I d'Este is a marble portrait bust by the Italian sculptor Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Completed in 1652, the work depicts Francesco I d'Este, Duke of Modena. It is in the Museo Estense, Modena, Italy. The noble yet detached expression of the face, the extensive drapery and the lavish locks of hair are often taken to be emeblematic of the way Bernini represented 'absolute monarchs' as seemingly adopting superior poses, oblvious to their surroundings. A painting of the portrait bust, surrounded by various objects, undertaken by the artist Francesco Stringa in the late 1660s is in the Minneapolis Institute of Art.. 
Monument to the Revolution. Author Name: Dušan Džamonja. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Modernism. . Monument to the Revolution of the people of Moslavina or simply Monument to the Revolution (Serbo-Croatian: Spomenik revolucije naroda Moslavine) is a World War II memorial sculpture by Dušan Džamonja, located in Podgarić, Berek, Croatia. It is dedicated to the people of Moslavina during World War II.. Monument to the Revolution of the people of Moslavina or simply Monument to the Revolution (Serbo-Croatian: Spomenik revolucije naroda Moslavine) is a World War II memorial sculpture by Dušan Džamonja, located in Podgarić, Berek, Croatia. It is dedicated to the people of Moslavina during World War II.. 
Lady Writing a Letter with her Maid. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . Lady Writing a Letter with her Maid is a painting by the Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer, completed between 1670–1671 and held in the National Gallery of Ireland. The work shows a middle-class woman attended by a maid who is presumably acting as messenger and go-between for the lady and her lover. The work is seen as a bridge between the quiet restraint and self-containment of Vermeer's work of the 1660s and his relatively cooler work of the 1670s. It may have been partly inspired by Ter Borch's painting Woman Sealing a Letter. The painting's canvas was almost certainly cut from the same bolt used for Woman with a Lute.. Lady Writing a Letter with her Maid is a painting by the Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer, completed between 1670–1671 and held in the National Gallery of Ireland. The work shows a middle-class woman attended by a maid who is presumably acting as messenger and go-between for the lady and her lover. The work is seen as a bridge between the quiet restraint and self-containment of Vermeer's work of the 1660s and his relatively cooler work of the 1670s. It may have been partly inspired by Ter Borch's painting Woman Sealing a Letter. The painting's canvas was almost certainly cut from the same bolt used for Woman with a Lute. Lady Writing a Letter with her Maid is the first of the artist's experiments with centrifugal composition; where the focus is not only from the center of the canvas. In addition, it is his third work in which the drama and dynamic is not centered on a single figure. The maid is shown standing in the mid-ground, behind her lady, with her hands crossed and waiting for the letter to be completed. The positions of their bodies indicates that the two women are disconnected. The folded arms of the maid seem outwardly as an attempt to display a sense of self-containment, however she is detached from her lady both emotionally and psychologically. The maid's gaze towards the half-visible window indicates an inner restlessness and boredom, as she waits impatiently for the messenger to carry her lady's letter away. Some art historians dispute the absoluteness of this view; according to Pascal Bonafoux, while complicity is not "indicated by a look or a smile" from either woman, the mere fact of her presence during such an intimate act as the composition of a love letter indicates at least a degree of intimacy between the two. The painting visits many of Vermeer's usual painterly motifs; in particular his obsession with the inside/outside axis of interior spaces, and through his description of the tiled floor as well as the verticals of the dresses, window frame and back wall painting, his interest in geometry and abstract form. Vermeer had experimented with this painterly device earlier in his career, notably in his View of Delft, The Lacemaker and The Art of Painting. Lady Writing was stolen on 27 April 1974, along with a Goya, two Gainsboroughs and three Rubens from the Russborough House home of Sir Alfred Beit by armed members of the IRA. Led by the British heiress Dr. Rose Dugdale, the thieves used screwdrivers to cut the paintings from their frames. However, the Vermeer and other works were recovered eight days later at a cottage in County Cork. The work was again taken in 1986 by a gang led by the Dublin gangster Martin Cahill. Along with a number of other art-works, Cahill held the painting for a ransom of £20 million. However, the money was not paid, and Cahill lacked contacts or knowledge to otherwise pass it on to international art thieves. According to an Radio Telefís Éireann report, Cahill's taste in art extended only to "cheery scenes like the cheap print in his living room of swans on a river, but he believed the stolen masterpieces would bring him a fortune." The painting was eventually recovered during an August 1993 exchange at Antwerp airport which turned out to be a sting operation organised by the Irish police. It had already been donated in absentia to the National Gallery in Dublin.. 
Death of the Virgin. Author Name: Andrea Mantegna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Death of the Virgin is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Andrea Mantegna, from c. 1462–1464.In this picture Mantegna depicts the last moment of Mary's life within a space defined by classical architectures, with a squared pavement which leads the observer's eyes towards the bed on which the Virgin lies. In the background is a lake scene which is a detailed reproduction of the bridge and the burgh of the Castle of St. George in Mantua. The work was originally part of the decoration of the Castle chapel, together with three panels now in the Uffizi of Florence: the Adoration of the Magi, The Ascension and The Circumcision.. The Death of the Virgin is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Andrea Mantegna, from c. 1462–1464. In this picture Mantegna depicts the last moment of Mary's life within a space defined by classical architectures, with a squared pavement which leads the observer's eyes towards the bed on which the Virgin lies. In the background is a lake scene which is a detailed reproduction of the bridge and the burgh of the Castle of St. George in Mantua. The work was originally part of the decoration of the Castle chapel, together with three panels now in the Uffizi of Florence: the Adoration of the Magi, The Ascension and The Circumcision. The unfinished appearance of the pilasters in the upper part of the picture suggests that it was once larger than it appears today. The fragment of Christ with the Virgin's Soul, now in Ferrara, was most likely part of the original composition.[citation needed]. 
The Lady with a Fan. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Lady with a Fan is an oil painting by the Spanish court painter Diego Velázquez. It depicts a woman wearing a black lace veil on her head and a dark dress with a low-cut bodice. On the basis of its place in Velázquez's stylistic development, the portrait is thought to have been painted between 1638 and 1639. It is now in the Wallace Collection in London.. The Lady with a Fan is an oil painting by the Spanish court painter Diego Velázquez. It depicts a woman wearing a black lace veil on her head and a dark dress with a low-cut bodice. On the basis of its place in Velázquez's stylistic development, the portrait is thought to have been painted between 1638 and 1639. It is now in the Wallace Collection in London.. 
The Heart of the Andes. Author Name: Frederic Edwin Church. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Hudson_River_School. . The Heart of the Andes is a large oil-on-canvas landscape painting by the American artist Frederic Edwin Church (1826–1900).At more than five feet (1.7 metres) high and almost ten feet (3 metres) wide, it depicts an idealized landscape in the South American Andes, where Church traveled on two occasions. Its exhibition in 1859 was a sensation, and the painting established Church as the foremost landscape painter in the United States. It has been in the collection of New York's Metropolitan Museum of Art since 1909, and is among Church's most renowned works.. The Heart of the Andes is a large oil-on-canvas landscape painting by the American artist Frederic Edwin Church (1826–1900). At more than five feet (1.7 metres) high and almost ten feet (3 metres) wide, it depicts an idealized landscape in the South American Andes, where Church traveled on two occasions. Its exhibition in 1859 was a sensation, and the painting established Church as the foremost landscape painter in the United States. It has been in the collection of New York's Metropolitan Museum of Art since 1909, and is among Church's most renowned works.. 
The Dormition of the Virgin. Author Name: El Greco. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . El Greco painted his Dormition of the Virgin near the end of his Cretan period, probably before 1567. El Greco's signature on the base of the central candelabrum was discovered in 1983. The discovery of the Dormition led to the attribution of three other signed works of "Doménicos" to El Greco (Modena Triptych, St. Luke Painting the Virgin and Child, and The Adoration of the Magi) and then to the acceptance as authentic of more works, signed or not (such as The Passion of Christ (Pietà with Angels), painted in 1566).. El Greco painted his Dormition of the Virgin near the end of his Cretan period, probably before 1567. El Greco's signature on the base of the central candelabrum was discovered in 1983. The discovery of the Dormition led to the attribution of three other signed works of "Doménicos" to El Greco (Modena Triptych, St. Luke Painting the Virgin and Child, and The Adoration of the Magi) and then to the acceptance as authentic of more works, signed or not (such as The Passion of Christ (Pietà with Angels), painted in 1566).This discovery constituted a significant advance in the understanding of El Greco's formation and early career. The painting combines post-Byzantine and Italian mannerist stylistic and iconographic elements. El Greco is now seen as an artist with a formative training on Crete; a series of works illuminate the style of early El Greco, some painted while he was still in Crete, some from his period in Venice, and some from his subsequent stay in Rome. The icon, which retains its function as an object of veneration in the Church of the Dormition of the Virgin in Syros, was probably brought to the island during the Greek War of Independence. The icon conforms closely to the established pattern for this subject, which was very common in the Orthodox Church in which El Greco was raised and was influenced by. Nevertheless, it has lost some elements of the traditional Byzantine austerity, adopting traits of the Renaissance engravings. The composition of the Burial of the Count of Orgaz has been closely related to the Byzantine iconography of the Dormition of the Theotokos. The examples that have been used to support this point of view have a close relationship with the icon of the Dormition by El Greco that was discovered in 1983 in the church of the same name in Syros. Marina Lambraki-Plaka believes that such a connection exists. Robert Byron, according to whom the iconographic type of the Dormition was the compositional model for The Burial of the Count of Orgaz, asserts that El Greco as a genuine Byzantine painter worked throughout his life with a repertoire of components and motifs at will, depending on the narrative and expressive requirements of the art.. 
Sueño de una tarde dominical en la Alameda Central. Author Name: Diego Rivera. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mexican_muralism. . Sueño de una tarde dominical en la Alameda Central or Dream of a Sunday Afternoon in the Alameda Central is a mural created by Diego Rivera. It was painted between the years 1946 and 1947, and is the principal work of the "Museo Mural Diego Rivera" adjacent to the Alameda in the historic center of Mexico City.. Sueño de una tarde dominical en la Alameda Central or Dream of a Sunday Afternoon in the Alameda Central is a mural created by Diego Rivera. It was painted between the years 1946 and 1947, and is the principal work of the "Museo Mural Diego Rivera" adjacent to the Alameda in the historic center of Mexico City.. 
Benjamin Franklin. Author Name: Boyle, John. . . Benjamin Franklin is a bronze sculpture of a seated Franklin by John J. Boyle at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. It is located in front of College Hall, on Locust Walk, between 34th and 36th Streets, and is one of three statues of Franklin on the campus.(On back of pedestal):(On back of statue):A signed Founder's mark also appears on the back of the statue.It was cleaned and reinstalled in 1980.. Benjamin Franklin is a bronze sculpture of a seated Franklin by John J. Boyle at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. It is located in front of College Hall, on Locust Walk, between 34th and 36th Streets, and is one of three statues of Franklin on the campus. It was commissioned by department store founder Justus C. Strawbridge in 1896, as a gift to the City of Philadelphia. It was cast by the Henry-Bonnard Bronze Company of New York, and installed in 1899 in front of Philadelphia's Main Post Office, at 9th and Chestnut Streets. Benjamin Franklin was the first United States Postmaster General. The granite pedestal was designed by architect Frank Miles Day. Its inscription quotes President George Washington's eulogy of Franklin: (On back of pedestal): (On back of statue): A signed Founder's mark also appears on the back of the statue. In 1938, when the Post Office was razed, the City gave the statue on permanent loan to the University of Pennsylvania. Franklin played a major role in establishing the university. It was relocated to the Penn campus, and rededicated on January 21, 1939. It was cleaned and reinstalled in 1980.. 
The Flight into Egypt. Author Name: Adam Elsheimer. . . The Flight into Egypt is an oil-on-copper cabinet painting by the German artist Adam Elsheimer dating from about 1609, while he was in Rome. It is thought to be the first naturalistic rendering of the night sky in Renaissance art. At Elsheimer's death in Rome in 1610, this picture was hanging in his bedroom.. The Flight into Egypt is an oil-on-copper cabinet painting by the German artist Adam Elsheimer dating from about 1609, while he was in Rome. It is thought to be the first naturalistic rendering of the night sky in Renaissance art. At Elsheimer's death in Rome in 1610, this picture was hanging in his bedroom. Like many other artists before and after him, Elsheimer has depicted the biblical Flight into Egypt, in which Joseph, Mary, and Jesus seek refuge from possible persecution by Herod. For its innovative fusing of religious and landscape elements, and its detailed juxtaposition of light and darkness, The Flight into Egypt is one of Elsheimer's most well-known and lauded works. It is also likely his last painting, for he died a year later. Elsheimer's treatment is unique in placing the Holy Family in a nocturnal setting, true to the biblical description. The darkness creates opposing feelings of intimacy and fear of the unknown. The painting channels the mysteries of night, pondered by humans for centuries, into this moment of the Holy Family seeking refuge. There are four sources of light in the painting: the moon is accurately depicted and reflects off the calm water. There is a fire near the shepherds at left, where the family is headed. At the centre of the composition, Joseph holds a torch that illuminates Mary and the infant, who are riding an ass. The heavily treed landscape behind them is almost black, its outline forming a diagonal across the sky and completely containing the foreground figures. The diagonal is echoed in the night sky by the intricate band of the Milky Way, and detailed configurations of stars are seen, including Ursa Major at far left. Elsheimer is thought to be the first painter to accurately depict constellations. Another readily identifiable constellation is Leo, above the Holy Family, with its brightest star, Regulus, in the centre of the picture. It has been proposed that Elsheimer reworked the painting in 1610, after the publication of Galileo's Sidereus Nuncius, which showed the Milky Way as composed of individual stars and showed the moon's surface in unprecedented detail. This hypothesis has been contested by Elsheimer scholar Keith Andrews. In addition to disclosing Elsheimer's interest in scientific topics, the appearance of the Milky Way has a spiritual connotation—it symbolized the path to heaven beginning in the Middle Ages. Elsheimer's sky, wrote art historian R.H. Wilenski, "is no longer a blackcloth but a symbol for boundless space".. 
Pioneer Woman. Author Name: Baker, Bryant. . . The Pioneer Woman monument is a bronze sculpture in Ponca City, Oklahoma, designed by Bryant Baker and dedicated on April 22, 1930. The statue is of a sunbonneted woman leading a child by the hand. It was donated to the State of Oklahoma by millionaire oilman E. W. Marland. He commissioned models from twelve well-known sculptors and financed a nationwide tour to get feedback from art critics and the general public in order to decide which model to use for the final statue.. The Pioneer Woman monument is a bronze sculpture in Ponca City, Oklahoma, designed by Bryant Baker and dedicated on April 22, 1930. The statue is of a sunbonneted woman leading a child by the hand. It was donated to the State of Oklahoma by millionaire oilman E. W. Marland. He commissioned models from twelve well-known sculptors and financed a nationwide tour to get feedback from art critics and the general public in order to decide which model to use for the final statue.. 
Partisan Ballad. Author Name: Dantsig. . . Partisan Ballad is a painting by Belarusian artist Mai Dantsig showing a partisan woman breastfeeding a weary partisan man during World War II. Both are equipped with rifles and ammunition belts. Dantsig borrowed the Roman Charity theme, having seen the eponymous painting by Peter Paul Rubens in the Hermitage Museum. Partisan Ballad alludes to the German occupation of the Soviet Union on the Eastern Front of World War II when Belarusian SSR became the haven of Soviet partisans.. Partisan Ballad is a painting by Belarusian artist Mai Dantsig showing a partisan woman breastfeeding a weary partisan man during World War II. Both are equipped with rifles and ammunition belts. Dantsig borrowed the Roman Charity theme, having seen the eponymous painting by Peter Paul Rubens in the Hermitage Museum. Partisan Ballad alludes to the German occupation of the Soviet Union on the Eastern Front of World War II when Belarusian SSR became the haven of Soviet partisans. The Partisan Ballad was at one time removed from the exhibition in the Minsk Palace of Arts when the local Soviet exhibition committee viewed the painting as an "incest". Dantsig subsequently kept the painting in his workshop before exhibiting it again in the Central House of Artists in Moscow. In 2015, Partisan Ballad was exhibited in the Saatchi Gallery in London.. 
Chez Tortoni. Author Name: Édouard Manet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Chez Tortoni is a painting by the French artist Édouard Manet, painted ca. 1878–1880. The oil-on-canvas painting measures 26 by 34 centimetres (10 in × 13 in). The painting hung in the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum of Boston, Massachusetts, United States, prior to being stolen in 1990.. Chez Tortoni is a painting by the French artist Édouard Manet, painted ca. 1878–1880. The oil-on-canvas painting measures 26 by 34 centimetres (10 in × 13 in). The painting hung in the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum of Boston, Massachusetts, United States, prior to being stolen in 1990.. 
Pablo de Valladolid or. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Portrait of Pablo de Valladolid is a portrait by Diego Velázquez of Pablo or "Pablillos" de Valladolid, 1587–1648, a jester and actor at Philip IV's court from 1632 until his death. It is now in the Prado, to which it was moved in 1827.In 1701 it was at the Palacio del Buen Retiro, in 1772 at the Palacio Real de Madrid and in 1816 at the Academia de San Fernando. In 1865, during his visit to Spain, the French painter Édouard Manet wrote of it:. Portrait of Pablo de Valladolid is a portrait by Diego Velázquez of Pablo or "Pablillos" de Valladolid, 1587–1648, a jester and actor at Philip IV's court from 1632 until his death. It is now in the Prado, to which it was moved in 1827. In 1701 it was at the Palacio del Buen Retiro, in 1772 at the Palacio Real de Madrid and in 1816 at the Academia de San Fernando. In 1865, during his visit to Spain, the French painter Édouard Manet wrote of it:. 
Le Travail interrompu. Author Name: William-Adolphe Bouguereau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Le Travail interrompu (English: Work Interrupted) is a painting painted by nineteenth century French painter William-Adolphe Bouguereau in 1891. The painting is currently held in the Mead Art Museum in Amherst, Massachusetts.The painting shows a woman seated beside an urn filled with balls of wool; Cupid is leaning across her shoulders applying perfume to her ear. The delicate luminous colours combined with the barely visible brush strokes are typical of the artists work.. Le Travail interrompu (English: Work Interrupted) is a painting painted by nineteenth century French painter William-Adolphe Bouguereau in 1891. The painting is currently held in the Mead Art Museum in Amherst, Massachusetts. The painting shows a woman seated beside an urn filled with balls of wool; Cupid is leaning across her shoulders applying perfume to her ear. The delicate luminous colours combined with the barely visible brush strokes are typical of the artists work.. 
Magistrate of Brussels. Author Name: Anthony van Dyck. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Magistrate of Brussels is an unfinished oil painting or oil sketch by Anthony van Dyck, rediscovered in 2013 after being shown on episodes of the BBC television programme Antiques Roadshow.The work was purchased for £400 from a Nantwich, Cheshire, antiques shop some years previously by Father Jamie MacLeod and hung in the Whaley Hall Ecumenical Retreat House, which he runs, at Whaley Bridge. At one point, it fell from the wall there, smashing a CD player, but sustained no significant damage. The frame was labelled "Sir A van Dyck", but the picture was thought to be a copy. He took the painting to a recording of Antiques Roadshow at Newstead Abbey, Nottinghamshire, in 2012.. Magistrate of Brussels is an unfinished oil painting or oil sketch by Anthony van Dyck, rediscovered in 2013 after being shown on episodes of the BBC television programme Antiques Roadshow. The work was purchased for £400 from a Nantwich, Cheshire, antiques shop some years previously by Father Jamie MacLeod and hung in the Whaley Hall Ecumenical Retreat House, which he runs, at Whaley Bridge. At one point, it fell from the wall there, smashing a CD player, but sustained no significant damage. The frame was labelled "Sir A van Dyck", but the picture was thought to be a copy. He took the painting to a recording of Antiques Roadshow at Newstead Abbey, Nottinghamshire, in 2012. MacLeod then took it to a second recording, at the Royal Agricultural University, Cirencester. There, it was recognised as potentially a van Dyck by presenter Fiona Bruce, who had been working with art historian Philip Mould on an episode of another television programme Fake or Fortune?, which featured works by van Dyck. Mould shared her suspicions and suggested that the work be treated by an expert restorer, in what he described as "the art equivalent of an [archaeological] excavation". The painting was restored by Simon Gillespie, who used solvent to remove layers of overpainting, in a process that took the equivalent of three weeks of full-time work. The removal of later painting returned what had appeared to be a finished portrait into a sketch with unfinished details. The ruff in particular was shown only in outline. The work was then confirmed as van Dyck's by Christopher Brown, a noted authority on the painter. Mould thought that the painting was probably a preparatory sketch for Van Dyck's 1634 work Magistrates of Brussels, which was destroyed in a French attack on Brussels in 1695. Its composition is known from a grisaille sketch, in the Ecole Nationale Superieure des Beaux-Arts in Paris, which van Dyck prepared to show how he planned to lay out the piece. Another three sketches of magistrates' heads for the same work, with the same red background as MacLeod's painting, are known to exist: two in the Ashmolean Museum at Oxford, and a third which was sold to an unknown buyer. A further work, in the Royal Collection, may also be from the same series. Mould pointed out that the pose of the MacLeod portrait matched that of the rightmost individual in the grisaille sketch. Mould valued the sketch at between £300,000 and £400,000, making it the most valuable painting identified in the 36-year history of the programme. MacLeod announced his intention to sell it, and to use the money to buy church bells, in commemoration of the centenary of the start of the First World War. In May 2014, it was announced that the work would be auctioned at Christie's on 8 July. but it failed to sell on that occasion.. 
The Feast of Saint Nicholas. Author Name: Jan Steen. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_Golden_Age_painting. . The Feast of Saint Nicholas (Dutch: Het Sint Nicolaasfeest, c. 1665–1668), is a painting by Dutch master Jan Steen, which can now be found in the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam. It measures 82 x 70.5 cm. The picture, painted in the chaotic Jan Steen "style," depicts a family at home on December 5, the night celebrated in the Netherlands as the Feast of Saint Nicholas, or Sinterklaas.. The Feast of Saint Nicholas (Dutch: Het Sint Nicolaasfeest, c. 1665–1668), is a painting by Dutch master Jan Steen, which can now be found in the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam. It measures 82 x 70.5 cm. The picture, painted in the chaotic Jan Steen "style," depicts a family at home on December 5, the night celebrated in the Netherlands as the Feast of Saint Nicholas, or Sinterklaas. The focal point of the painting is the youngest daughter of the family, a golden-child, painted, in fact, in a golden smock and showing golden locks. She has behaved all year, and Saint Nicholas has rewarded her by stuffing her shoe with a doll and other treats, which she carries in her bucket. She is in stark contrast to her elder brother, standing to her right, who is sobbing, while another brother looks on, laughing. Apparently, the elder brother has been naughty, and his shoe, held up by an elder sister behind him, was left empty. Still there is hope for the sobbing boy. Hidden in the background, almost obscured by the draperies, his grandmother seems to beckon to him—perhaps she is hiding a gift for him too, behind the heavy curtains. While the mother attempts to coax the golden girl to show her the gifts she received, the father, seated in the center of the painting, seems to smile as he remembers his own childhood on this festive night. Further to the right a child can be seen holding a baby and pointing up the chimney, while a younger child looks on in amazement, as he has probably just been told that this was Sinterklaas' method of gaining entry to the house.. 
White Crucifixion. Author Name: Marc Chagall. . Author Movement: *. . The White Crucifixion is a painting by Marc Chagall. It was painted in 1938 after Chagall had visited Europe, and can be viewed at the Art Institute of Chicago.. The White Crucifixion is a painting by Marc Chagall. It was painted in 1938 after Chagall had visited Europe, and can be viewed at the Art Institute of Chicago.. 
The Wedding Dance. Author Name: Pieter Bruegel the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_and_Flemish_Renaissance_painting. . The Wedding Dance (sometimes known as The Dance Village) is a 1566 oil-on-panel painting by the Flemish artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder. Owned by the museum of the Detroit Institute of Arts in Detroit, Michigan, the work was discovered by its director in England in 1930, and brought to Detroit. It is believed to be one of a set of three Bruegel works from around the same time, The Wedding Dance, The Peasant Wedding (1567) and The Peasant Dance (1569).. The Wedding Dance (sometimes known as The Dance Village) is a 1566 oil-on-panel painting by the Flemish artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder. Owned by the museum of the Detroit Institute of Arts in Detroit, Michigan, the work was discovered by its director in England in 1930, and brought to Detroit. It is believed to be one of a set of three Bruegel works from around the same time, The Wedding Dance, The Peasant Wedding (1567) and The Peasant Dance (1569). The painting depicts 125 wedding guests. As was customary in the Renaissance period, the brides wore black and men wore codpieces. Voyeurism is depicted throughout the entire art work; dancing was tabooed at the time by the authorities and the church, and the painting can be seen as both a critique and comic depiction of a stereotypical oversexed, overindulgent, peasant class of the times.. 
Tabernacle of the Linaioli. Author Name: Blessed John of Fiesole, O.P.. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Tabernacle of the Linaioli (Italian: Tabernacolo dei Linaioli, literally "Tabernacle of the Linen manufacturers") is a marble aedicula designed by Lorenzo Ghiberti, with paintings by Fra Angelico, dating to 1432-1433. It is housed in the National Museum of San Marco, Florence, central Italy.. The Tabernacle of the Linaioli (Italian: Tabernacolo dei Linaioli, literally "Tabernacle of the Linen manufacturers") is a marble aedicula designed by Lorenzo Ghiberti, with paintings by Fra Angelico, dating to 1432-1433. It is housed in the National Museum of San Marco, Florence, central Italy.. 
Diana and Her Companions. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . Diana and Her Companions is a painting by Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer completed in the early to mid-1650s, now at the Mauritshuis museum in The Hague. Although the exact year is unknown, the work may be the earliest painting of the artist still extant, with some art historians placing it before Christ in the House of Martha and Mary, some after.. Diana and Her Companions is a painting by Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer completed in the early to mid-1650s, now at the Mauritshuis museum in The Hague. Although the exact year is unknown, the work may be the earliest painting of the artist still extant, with some art historians placing it before Christ in the House of Martha and Mary, some after. The painting's solemn mood is unusual for a scene depicting the goddess Diana, and the nymph washing the central figure's feet has captured the attention of critics and historians, both for her activity and contemporary clothing. Rather than directly illustrating one of the dramatic moments in well-known episodes from myths about Diana, the scene shows a woman and her attendants quietly at her toilette. The theme of a woman in a private, reflective moment would grow stronger in Vermeer's paintings as his career progressed. Nothing of the work's history before the mid-19th century is known, and the painting was not widely accepted as one of Vermeer's until the early 20th century, when its similarities with Mary and Martha were noticed. About one ninth of the painting's width has been removed from the right side, and it was not discovered until 1999 or 2000 was that the sky in the upper right-hand corner had been added in the 19th century.. 
Adoration of the Magi. Author Name: Leonardo da Vinci. . . The Adoration of the Magi is an early painting by Leonardo da Vinci. Leonardo was given the commission by the Augustinian monks of San Donato a Scopeto in Florence, but departed for Milan the following year, leaving the painting unfinished. It has been in the Uffizi Gallery in Florence since 1670.. The Adoration of the Magi is an early painting by Leonardo da Vinci. Leonardo was given the commission by the Augustinian monks of San Donato a Scopeto in Florence, but departed for Milan the following year, leaving the painting unfinished. It has been in the Uffizi Gallery in Florence since 1670.. 
Madonna and Child Enthroned with Saints. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Madonna and Child Enthroned with Saints (Young Baptist and Saints Peter, Catherine, Lucy, and Paul), also known as the Colonna Altarpiece, is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael, c. 1504. It is housed in the Metropolitan Museum of Art of New York City. It is the only altarpiece by Raphael in the United States.. The Madonna and Child Enthroned with Saints (Young Baptist and Saints Peter, Catherine, Lucy, and Paul), also known as the Colonna Altarpiece, is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael, c. 1504. It is housed in the Metropolitan Museum of Art of New York City. It is the only altarpiece by Raphael in the United States. The collection of Metropolitan Museum of Art also contains a painting of the Agony in the Garden from the predella of the altarpiece. Other panels from the predella can be found in the collections of the National Gallery, London, the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum, in Boston, and Dulwich Picture Gallery, in London. A preparatory drawing by Raphael for the composition of the agony in the garden is in the collection of the Morgan Library New York. The pieces of the predella were separated from the altarpiece and sold to Queen Christina of Sweden, from where they reached Orleans Collection, while the main panels themselves were eventually sold to the aristocratic Colonna family in Rome, from whom the altarpiece takes its name. The Altarpiece was the last Raphael altar in private hands when J.P. Morgan purchased it in the early 20th century for a record price.. 
Allegory of Virtues and Vices. Author Name: Lorenzo Lotto. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Allegory of Virtue and Vice is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Lorenzo Lotto, dating to 1505. It is housed in the National Gallery of Art in Washington, United States.. The Allegory of Virtue and Vice is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Lorenzo Lotto, dating to 1505. It is housed in the National Gallery of Art in Washington, United States.. 
Aeneas, Anchises, and Ascanius. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Aeneas, Anchises, and Ascanius is a sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini created c. 1618-19. Housed in the Galleria Borghese in Rome, the sculpture depicts a scene from the Aeneid, where the hero Aeneas leads his family from burning Troy.. Aeneas, Anchises, and Ascanius is a sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini created c. 1618-19. Housed in the Galleria Borghese in Rome, the sculpture depicts a scene from the Aeneid, where the hero Aeneas leads his family from burning Troy.. 
La Hermana del Hombre Bóveda. Author Name: Pablo Serrano. . . La Hermana del Hombre Bóveda is a public artwork by Spanish artist Pablo Serrano, located at the Indianapolis Museum of Art (IMA), which is near downtown Indianapolis, Indiana. The artwork is an abstract bronze piece which tops a granite fountain.. La Hermana del Hombre Bóveda is a public artwork by Spanish artist Pablo Serrano, located at the Indianapolis Museum of Art (IMA), which is near downtown Indianapolis, Indiana. The artwork is an abstract bronze piece which tops a granite fountain.. 
The Adoration of the Shepherds. Author Name: Andrea Mantegna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Adoration of the Shepherds is a painting by the northern Italian Renaissance artist Andrea Mantegna, dated to c. 1450-1451.. The Adoration of the Shepherds is a painting by the northern Italian Renaissance artist Andrea Mantegna, dated to c. 1450-1451.. 
The Stolen Kiss. Author Name: Jean-Honoré Fragonard. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Rococo. . The Stolen Kiss is a painting by French painter Jean Honore Fragonard (1732–1806) from the end of the 1780s, depicting a secretive romance. The painting was hosted in the collection of the Hermitage, in St. Petersburg. The style of the painting was characteristic of the French Rococo period and was favoured by the wealthy art patrons of his time.. The Stolen Kiss is a painting by French painter Jean Honore Fragonard (1732–1806) from the end of the 1780s, depicting a secretive romance. The painting was hosted in the collection of the Hermitage, in St. Petersburg. The style of the painting was characteristic of the French Rococo period and was favoured by the wealthy art patrons of his time.. 
Vase with Red Poppies. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Vase with Red Poppies was a painting made by Vincent van Gogh in Paris in 1886.. Vase with Red Poppies was a painting made by Vincent van Gogh in Paris in 1886.. 
Elk. Author Name: Perry, Roland Hinton. . . Elk, also known as the David P. Thompson Monument, Elk Fountain or the Thompson Elk, is an outdoor fountain and bronze sculpture by American artist Roland Hinton Perry, located in the Plaza Blocks in downtown Portland, Oregon, in the United States.. Elk, also known as the David P. Thompson Monument, Elk Fountain or the Thompson Elk, is an outdoor fountain and bronze sculpture by American artist Roland Hinton Perry, located in the Plaza Blocks in downtown Portland, Oregon, in the United States.. 
San Giovenale Triptych. Author Name: Masaccio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The San Giovenale Triptych or Cascia Altarpiece is a 1422 painting by Italian Renaissance artist Masaccio, housed in a museum behind the church of Cascia di Reggello, in the Roman Pieve of San Pietro di Cascia near Florence, Italy.. The San Giovenale Triptych or Cascia Altarpiece is a 1422 painting by Italian Renaissance artist Masaccio, housed in a museum behind the church of Cascia di Reggello, in the Roman Pieve of San Pietro di Cascia near Florence, Italy. This work, discovered in 1961 in a state of poor preservation, in the loft of a house adjacent to the small chapel of San Giovenale two kilometres from Cascia by Juliana Arnetoli. It had allegedly been hidden there before the Second World War to prevent the occupying German army from removing it from the chapel. It is probably the first original work by Masaccio.[citation needed] It was commissioned by the Florentine family of Castellani for the Basilica of San Lorenzo, and was later moved to San Giovenale.[citation needed] It is dated at the bottom in modern humanist letters, the first work in Europe not inscribed in Gothic characters, which read, "ANNO DOMINI MCCCCXXII A DI VENTITRE D'AP[RILE]" (April 23, 1422). The central panel shows the Madonna enthroned with two angels and the child Jesus eating some vine, as a symbol of the Eucharist. The left panel depicts Saint Bartholomew and Saint Blaise, and the right panel depicts Saint Anthony and Saint Juvenal (Giovenale). The left and right panels show a marked influence of 14th century models, while the complex perspective of the centre panel would have been something new for its time. Also, the use of three-dimensional solidity makes the painting revolutionary for its time.. 
Aspire. Author Name: Ken Shuttleworth. . . Aspire is a work of art, constructed on the Jubilee Campus of the University of Nottingham, in Nottingham, England. It is a 60-metre tall, red and orange steel sculpture, and was, until overtaken by Anish Kapoor's Orbit, the tallest free standing public work of art in the United Kingdom, taller than B of the Bang; Nelson's Column, the Angel of the North and (excluding the pedestal) the Statue of Liberty. Designed by Ken Shuttleworth and MAKE Architects, it comprises an 8m high concrete foundation and 52m high red and orange steel tower. The sculpture weighs 854 tonnes, and cost £800,000, which was donated by an anonymous benefactor. The name Aspire was chosen after a competition to name the sculpture, which was open to staff and students at the university.. Aspire is a work of art, constructed on the Jubilee Campus of the University of Nottingham, in Nottingham, England. It is a 60-metre tall, red and orange steel sculpture, and was, until overtaken by Anish Kapoor's Orbit, the tallest free standing public work of art in the United Kingdom, taller than B of the Bang; Nelson's Column, the Angel of the North and (excluding the pedestal) the Statue of Liberty. Designed by Ken Shuttleworth and MAKE Architects, it comprises an 8m high concrete foundation and 52m high red and orange steel tower. The sculpture weighs 854 tonnes, and cost £800,000, which was donated by an anonymous benefactor. The name Aspire was chosen after a competition to name the sculpture, which was open to staff and students at the university. The structure was fabricated by Watson Steel Structures Ltd in Bolton, Greater Manchester, and was then transported to Widnes, Cheshire, where Merseyside Coatings Ltd applied the distinctive red and orange colour scheme.. 
Mi Novia. Author Name: Juan Luna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Mi Novia ("My Girlfriend") is a painting Filipino painter Juan Luna. Created in the academic-style, it was in an exhibition hors concours or not for the purpose of competing for a prize. Instead it was a painting that was aimed to please the viewing public.. Mi Novia ("My Girlfriend") is a painting Filipino painter Juan Luna. Created in the academic-style, it was in an exhibition hors concours or not for the purpose of competing for a prize. Instead it was a painting that was aimed to please the viewing public.. 
Angel with the Superscription. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Angel with the Superscription is a statue by Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Originally commissioned by Pope Clement IX for the Ponte Sant'Angelo project, the statue was replaced with a copy and the original was moved to Sant'Andrea delle Fratte in Rome, Italy. The statue was started in 1667 and completed in 1669.. Angel with the Superscription is a statue by Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Originally commissioned by Pope Clement IX for the Ponte Sant'Angelo project, the statue was replaced with a copy and the original was moved to Sant'Andrea delle Fratte in Rome, Italy. The statue was started in 1667 and completed in 1669.. 
Paths of Glory. Author Name: CRW Nevinson. . . Paths of Glory is a 1917 painting by British artist Christopher Nevinson. The title quotes from a line from Thomas Gray's poem Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard: "The paths of glory lead but to the grave". It is held by the Imperial War Museum in London, which describes it as "one of Nevinson's most famous paintings".. Paths of Glory is a 1917 painting by British artist Christopher Nevinson. The title quotes from a line from Thomas Gray's poem Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard: "The paths of glory lead but to the grave". It is held by the Imperial War Museum in London, which describes it as "one of Nevinson's most famous paintings".. 
Loyal B. Stearns Memorial Fountain. Author Name: A. E. Doyle. . . The Loyal B. Stearns Memorial Fountain, also known as the Judge Loyal B. Stearns Memorial Fountain, is an outdoor 1941 drinking fountain and sculpture by the design firm A. E. Doyle and Associates, located in Portland, Oregon. It was erected in Washington Park in honor of the former Oregon judge Loyal B. Stearns.. The Loyal B. Stearns Memorial Fountain, also known as the Judge Loyal B. Stearns Memorial Fountain, is an outdoor 1941 drinking fountain and sculpture by the design firm A. E. Doyle and Associates, located in Portland, Oregon. It was erected in Washington Park in honor of the former Oregon judge Loyal B. Stearns.. 
The Drummer. Author Name: Barry Flanagan. . . The Drummer is a bronze sculpture, by Barry Flanagan.It is at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.. The Drummer is a bronze sculpture, by Barry Flanagan. It is at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.. 
Woman in a courtyard. Author Name: Robertson, Suze. . . Woman in a courtyard is an oil painting by the impressionist painter Suze Robertson acquired by the Groninger Museum in 1959.. Woman in a courtyard is an oil painting by the impressionist painter Suze Robertson acquired by the Groninger Museum in 1959.. 
Danaë. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Danaë is Rembrandt's painting from the collection of Pierre Crozat which since the 18th century has resided in the Hermitage Museum, St. Petersburg, Russia. It is a life-sized depiction of the character Danaë from Greek mythology, the mother of Perseus. She is presumably depicted as welcoming Zeus, who impregnated her in the form of a shower of gold. Given that this is one of Rembrandt's most magnificent paintings, it is not out of the question that he cherished it, but it also may have been difficult to sell because of its eight-by-ten-foot size. Although the artist's wife Saskia was the original model for Danaë, Rembrandt later changed the figure's face to that of his mistress Geertje Dircx.. Danaë is Rembrandt's painting from the collection of Pierre Crozat which since the 18th century has resided in the Hermitage Museum, St. Petersburg, Russia. It is a life-sized depiction of the character Danaë from Greek mythology, the mother of Perseus. She is presumably depicted as welcoming Zeus, who impregnated her in the form of a shower of gold. Given that this is one of Rembrandt's most magnificent paintings, it is not out of the question that he cherished it, but it also may have been difficult to sell because of its eight-by-ten-foot size. Although the artist's wife Saskia was the original model for Danaë, Rembrandt later changed the figure's face to that of his mistress Geertje Dircx.. 
Le Rêve. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Le Rêve (French, "The Dream") is a 1932 oil painting (130 × 97 cm) by Pablo Picasso, then 50 years old, portraying his 22-year-old mistress Marie-Thérèse Walter. It is said to have been painted in one afternoon, on 24 January 1932. It belongs to Picasso's period of distorted depictions, with its oversimplified outlines and contrasted colors resembling early Fauvism.The erotic content of the painting has been noted repeatedly, with critics pointing out that Picasso painted an erect penis, presumably symbolizing his own, in the upturned face of his model.. Le Rêve (French, "The Dream") is a 1932 oil painting (130 × 97 cm) by Pablo Picasso, then 50 years old, portraying his 22-year-old mistress Marie-Thérèse Walter. It is said to have been painted in one afternoon, on 24 January 1932. It belongs to Picasso's period of distorted depictions, with its oversimplified outlines and contrasted colors resembling early Fauvism. The erotic content of the painting has been noted repeatedly, with critics pointing out that Picasso painted an erect penis, presumably symbolizing his own, in the upturned face of his model.. 
The Odalisque. Author Name: Marià Fortuny. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . The Odalisque is a painting by Marià Fortuny exhibited at the National Art Museum of Catalonia in Barcelona.. The Odalisque is a painting by Marià Fortuny exhibited at the National Art Museum of Catalonia in Barcelona.. 
Aix Annunciation. Author Name: Eyck, Barthelemy D'. . . The Aix Annunciation is a painting attributed to the Barthélemy d'Eyck or the so-called Master of the Annunciation of Aix-en-Provence. Executed in 1443-1445, it was originally placed in the Cathédrale Saint-Sauveur, Aix-en-Provence, southern France. Now it is divided between the Église de la Madeleine in the same city (central panel with the Annunciation), the Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen (part of the left panel with the prophet Isaiah) at Rotterdam, the Rijksmuseum of Amsterdam (upper part of the left panel), while the right panel is in the Royal Museum of Fine Arts of Belgium in Brussels. Side panels are painted on both sides, showing Christ on the right and Mary Magdalene on the left (the upper part, on reverse of the Amsterdam panel, does not survive); together they used to form a Nol. The Aix Annunciation is a painting attributed to the Barthélemy d'Eyck or the so-called Master of the Annunciation of Aix-en-Provence. Executed in 1443-1445, it was originally placed in the Cathédrale Saint-Sauveur, Aix-en-Provence, southern France. Now it is divided between the Église de la Madeleine in the same city (central panel with the Annunciation), the Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen (part of the left panel with the prophet Isaiah) at Rotterdam, the Rijksmuseum of Amsterdam (upper part of the left panel), while the right panel is in the Royal Museum of Fine Arts of Belgium in Brussels. Side panels are painted on both sides, showing Christ on the right and Mary Magdalene on the left (the upper part, on reverse of the Amsterdam panel, does not survive); together they used to form a Noli me tangere scene when the triptych was folded shut.. 
Bailed Up. Author Name: Tom Roberts. . . Bailed Up is a 1895 painting by Australian artist Tom Roberts. The painting depicts a stage coach being held up by bushrangers in an isolated, forested section of a back road. The painting is part of the collection of the Art Gallery of New South Wales. and has been described by the former Senior Curator as "the greatest Australian landscape ever painted".. Bailed Up is a 1895 painting by Australian artist Tom Roberts. The painting depicts a stage coach being held up by bushrangers in an isolated, forested section of a back road. The painting is part of the collection of the Art Gallery of New South Wales. and has been described by the former Senior Curator as "the greatest Australian landscape ever painted".. 
Aquis Submersus. Author Name: Max Ernst. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dada. . Aquis Submersus (Latin for Water Drowning) is a painting by the German dadaist and surrealist Max Ernst created in 1919. Influenced by the Italian metaphysical art it is one of Ernst's earliest works showing surrealistical accents. It currently resides at the Städel museum in Frankfurt, Germany.The painting carries the same name as a famous novella Aquis submersus by Theodor Storm, published in 1876, which influenced Ernst creating his painting.. Aquis Submersus (Latin for Water Drowning) is a painting by the German dadaist and surrealist Max Ernst created in 1919. Influenced by the Italian metaphysical art it is one of Ernst's earliest works showing surrealistical accents. It currently resides at the Städel museum in Frankfurt, Germany. The painting depicts a swimming pool surrounded by buildings. The sense of dimension is unclear. The features of the buildings appear to be hand-drawn. The buildings leave shadows against the sky like a wall. Hanging in the sky is a clock that reflects on the water as a moon. In the pool, the picture shows a possibly female or childish body in an upside-down position with only the waist and legs above the water level. The person appears to be diving or is drowning. In the foreground is an armless stature-like figure that appears to have been made out of clay, throwing a shadow in the direction of the pool, similar to another shadow originating from outside the picture. The person looks away from the pool and bears a handlebar mustache resembling that of Ernst's father, but also has features which could be interpreted as female. The painting carries the same name as a famous novella Aquis submersus by Theodor Storm, published in 1876, which influenced Ernst creating his painting.. 
Saint Augustine in His Study. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Saint Augustine in His Study, is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli, finished around 1490-1494. It is housed in the Uffizi, in Florence.This work was probably executed for an Augustinian hermit of Santo Spirito, as shown by the fact the saint wears both episcopal and hermit garments.As many of Botticelli's late works, it is inspired by the preaching of Savonarola.. Saint Augustine in His Study, is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli, finished around 1490-1494. It is housed in the Uffizi, in Florence. This work was probably executed for an Augustinian hermit of Santo Spirito, as shown by the fact the saint wears both episcopal and hermit garments. As many of Botticelli's late works, it is inspired by the preaching of Savonarola.. 
The Bex Eagle. Author Name: Ghiglieri, Lorenzo. . . The Bex Eagle is a bronze sculpture located in Pershing Park, Washington, D.C.It was dedicated on May 3, 1982.. The Bex Eagle is a bronze sculpture located in Pershing Park, Washington, D.C.It was dedicated on May 3, 1982.. 
Nudes with Beach Ball. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Nudes with Beach Ball is a 1994 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein. Erika Wexler, daughter of Norman Wexler, claims to be the "muse" behind several of Lichtenstein's nudes, including this one.. Nudes with Beach Ball is a 1994 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein. Erika Wexler, daughter of Norman Wexler, claims to be the "muse" behind several of Lichtenstein's nudes, including this one.. 
Madonna with Writing Child and St. Jerome. Author Name: Bernardino Pinturicchio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Madonna with Writing Child and St. Jerome is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Pinturicchio, painted around 1481 and housed in the Gemäldegalerie of Berlin, Germany.. The Madonna with Writing Child and St. Jerome is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Pinturicchio, painted around 1481 and housed in the Gemäldegalerie of Berlin, Germany.. 
Story Time. Author Name: Price, Gary Lee. . . Story Time, also known as Storytime, is an outdoor bronze sculpture by Gary Lee Price, installed in Corvallis, Oregon, in the United States.. Story Time, also known as Storytime, is an outdoor bronze sculpture by Gary Lee Price, installed in Corvallis, Oregon, in the United States.. 
Red Kimono on the Roof. Author Name: John Sloan. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Ashcan_School. . Red Kimono on the Roof is an oil painting by American artist John Sloan, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, USA. Painted in 1912, its down-to-earth subject matter and execution make it an excellent example of the work of the Ashcan School, which was active in New York City in the early years of the twentieth century.. Red Kimono on the Roof is an oil painting by American artist John Sloan, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, USA. Painted in 1912, its down-to-earth subject matter and execution make it an excellent example of the work of the Ashcan School, which was active in New York City in the early years of the twentieth century.. 
Portrait of Andrea Odoni. Author Name: Lorenzo Lotto. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Andrea Odoni is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Lorenzo Lotto, dating to 1527. It is housed in the Royal Collection of Windsor Castle, London, United Kingdom.. The Portrait of Andrea Odoni is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Lorenzo Lotto, dating to 1527. It is housed in the Royal Collection of Windsor Castle, London, United Kingdom.. 
The Falconer. Author Name: George Blackall Simonds. . . The Falconer is a bronze sculpture in Central Park, New York City by English sculptor George Blackall Simonds. It depicts a man in a theatrical version of Elizabethan dress standing on a high granite pedestal, releasing a hunting falcon.. The Falconer is a bronze sculpture in Central Park, New York City by English sculptor George Blackall Simonds. It depicts a man in a theatrical version of Elizabethan dress standing on a high granite pedestal, releasing a hunting falcon. The Falconer, cast in 1871 in Florence, was erected in 1875 on a prominent rock overlooking the confluence of Terrace Drive and another carriage drive near the West 72nd Street drive entrance. The growth of surrounding trees has partly obscured the site. The sculpture has a history of being vandalized. The original falcon was stolen, and in the 1960s the New York City Parks Department commissioned their employee and sculptor, Joel Rudnick, to mold a new falcon which now sits on The Falconer's arm. This new falcon is substantially different from the original falcon.. 
Cliff Rock - Appledore. Author Name: Childe Hassam. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/American_Impressionism. . Cliff Rock - Appledore is an oil painting by American artist Childe Hassam, painted in 1903. It is currently part of the permanent collection at the Indianapolis Museum of Art.. Cliff Rock - Appledore is an oil painting by American artist Childe Hassam, painted in 1903. It is currently part of the permanent collection at the Indianapolis Museum of Art.. 
Holy Allegory. Author Name: Giovanni Bellini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Holy Allegory is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini, dating from c. 1490 to 1500. It is in the Uffizi gallery in Florence, Italy.. The Holy Allegory is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini, dating from c. 1490 to 1500. It is in the Uffizi gallery in Florence, Italy.. 
Christ Carrying the Cross. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Cristo della Minerva, also known as Christ the Redeemer, Christ Carrying the Cross or the Risen Christ, is a marble sculpture by the Italian High Renaissance master Michelangelo Buonarroti, finished in 1521. It is in the church of Santa Maria sopra Minerva in Rome, to the left of the main altar.. The Cristo della Minerva, also known as Christ the Redeemer, Christ Carrying the Cross or the Risen Christ, is a marble sculpture by the Italian High Renaissance master Michelangelo Buonarroti, finished in 1521. It is in the church of Santa Maria sopra Minerva in Rome, to the left of the main altar. The work was commissioned in June 1514, by the Roman patrician Metello Vari, who stipulated only that the nude standing figure would have the Cross in his arms, but left the composition entirely to Michelangelo. Michelangelo was working on a first version of this statue in his shop in Macello dei Corvi around 1515, but abandoned it in roughed-out condition when he discovered a black vein in the white marble, remarked upon by Vari in a letter, and later by Ulisse Aldrovandi. A new version was hurriedly substituted in 1519-1520 to fulfil the terms of the contract. Michelangelo worked on it in Florence, and the move to Rome and final touches were entrusted to an apprentice, Pietro Urbano; the latter, however, damaged the work and had to be quickly replaced by Federico Frizzi after a suggestion from Sebastiano del Piombo. The first version, rough as it was, was asked for by Metello Vari, and given him in January 1522, for the little garden courtyard of his palazzetto near Santa Maria sopra Minerva, come suo grandissimo onore, come fosse d'oro. There it remained, described by Aldrovandi in 1556, and noted in some contemporary letters as apparently for sale in 1607, following which it was utterly lost to sight. In 2000 Irene Baldriga recognized the lost first version, extensively reworked in the seventeenth century, in the sacristy of the church of San Vincenzo Martire, at Bassano Romano near Viterbo; the black vein is clearly distinguishable on Christ's left cheek. Despite all these problems, the second version impressed the contemporaries. Sebastiano del Piombo declared that the knees alone were worthy of more than the whole Rome, which William Wallace has called "one of the most curious praises ever sung about a work of art". Christ is shown by Michelangelo unclothed in a standing pose. Christ's sexual organs are exposed in order to show that his sexuality is uncorrupted by lust and completely controlled by his will, so that in his resurrected body he shows his triumph over both sin and death. During the Baroque period a girdle was added. A leg is flexed and the head turned back, according to the principle of contrapposto.. 
Thoughts of the Past. Author Name: John Roddam Spencer Stanhope. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Aestheticism. . Thoughts of the Past is an oil painting on canvas by English Pre-Raphaelite artist John Roddam Spencer Stanhope, first exhibited 1859 and currently housed at Tate Britain.. Thoughts of the Past is an oil painting on canvas by English Pre-Raphaelite artist John Roddam Spencer Stanhope, first exhibited 1859 and currently housed at Tate Britain.. 
The infanta Maria Theresa aged 14. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The infanta Maria Theresa of Spain or The infanta Maria Theresa aged 14 is a 1653 portrait by Diego Velázquez of Maria Theresa of Spain. It has been cut down at the top and bottom and is now in the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna.It is considered one of the artist's best late portraits, showing its subject in a majestic pose, illuminated in a light dress against a dark background. Its seriousness and formality is added to by the two watches she carries, whilst the handkerchief in her left hand is one of the painting's highlights.. The infanta Maria Theresa of Spain or The infanta Maria Theresa aged 14 is a 1653 portrait by Diego Velázquez of Maria Theresa of Spain. It has been cut down at the top and bottom and is now in the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna. It is considered one of the artist's best late portraits, showing its subject in a majestic pose, illuminated in a light dress against a dark background. Its seriousness and formality is added to by the two watches she carries, whilst the handkerchief in her left hand is one of the painting's highlights.. 
Watson and the Shark. Author Name: John Singleton Copley. . . Watson and the Shark is a 1778 oil painting by John Singleton Copley, depicting the rescue of Brook Watson from a shark attack in Havana, Cuba. The original of three versions by Copley is in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C.. Watson and the Shark is a 1778 oil painting by John Singleton Copley, depicting the rescue of Brook Watson from a shark attack in Havana, Cuba. The original of three versions by Copley is in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C.. 
Portrait of a Young Man. Author Name: Antonello da Messina. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Portrait of a Young Man is a painting by Italian Renaissance artist Antonello da Messina.. Portrait of a Young Man is a painting by Italian Renaissance artist Antonello da Messina.. 
The Côte des Bœufs at L’Hermitage. Author Name: Camille Pissarro. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Côte des Bœufs at L’Hermitage is an oil-on-canvas landscape painting by the French Impressionist artist Camille Pissarro. It was painted in 1877, and displayed the same year at an exhibition now generally referred to as the third Impressionist exhibition. The picture is large by Pissarro’s measure, and he described the effort of painting it as the ‘work of a benedictine’. Pissarro was proud of the painting, and it remained in his family’s possession until 1913. It presently hangs in the National Gallery, London.. The Côte des Bœufs at L’Hermitage is an oil-on-canvas landscape painting by the French Impressionist artist Camille Pissarro. It was painted in 1877, and displayed the same year at an exhibition now generally referred to as the third Impressionist exhibition. The picture is large by Pissarro’s measure, and he described the effort of painting it as the ‘work of a benedictine’. Pissarro was proud of the painting, and it remained in his family’s possession until 1913. It presently hangs in the National Gallery, London.. 
Crucifixion. Author Name: Titian. . . The Crucifixion is a life sized painting by the Venetian artist Titian, completed in 1558 and presently hanging in the sanctuary of the church of San Domenico, Ancona. Jesus Christ is shown crucified, with Saint Mary and Saint John standing either side of the cross in the Stabat Mater tradition. The kneeling figure is of Saint Dominic. The canvas was completed during Titian’s fifth decade of painting, and is one of the works marking a shift toward his extensive exploration of tragedy and human suffering.. The Crucifixion is a life sized painting by the Venetian artist Titian, completed in 1558 and presently hanging in the sanctuary of the church of San Domenico, Ancona. Jesus Christ is shown crucified, with Saint Mary and Saint John standing either side of the cross in the Stabat Mater tradition. The kneeling figure is of Saint Dominic. The canvas was completed during Titian’s fifth decade of painting, and is one of the works marking a shift toward his extensive exploration of tragedy and human suffering.. 
Portrait of Tommaso Inghirami. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Portrait of Tommaso Inghirami is an oil painting by Italian artist Raphael. Painted ca. 1509, it exists in two copies, one of which is in display in the Palatina Gallery in Florence and the other in the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston. Known for its realism and attention to detail, the image is reminiscent of works by Hans Holbein the Elder, by whom Raphael may have been influenced in its execution. Stylistically, it relates to Raphael's Portrait of Agnolo Doni, ca.1506, in what Claudio Strinati described in 1998 as its "merciless clarity.". Portrait of Tommaso Inghirami is an oil painting by Italian artist Raphael. Painted ca. 1509, it exists in two copies, one of which is in display in the Palatina Gallery in Florence and the other in the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston. Known for its realism and attention to detail, the image is reminiscent of works by Hans Holbein the Elder, by whom Raphael may have been influenced in its execution. Stylistically, it relates to Raphael's Portrait of Agnolo Doni, ca.1506, in what Claudio Strinati described in 1998 as its "merciless clarity." The subject of the painting, Tommaso Inghirami, was a friend of Raphael's, a prelate nicknamed Phaedra following a skillful exhibition of Latin poetry improvisation during a performance of Seneca's Phaedra wherein he carried the title role. A popular orator and actor, Tommaso Inghirami had strabismus. According to 2005's Cambridge Companion to Raphael, the piece is "the first likeness into which Raphael introduced the concept of movement", in the twist of his body as he contemplates his composition. By means of this device, Raphael focused attention away from his subject's disfigurement.. 
Lise. Author Name: Pierre-Auguste Renoir. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Lise, also known as Lise with a Parasol, is an oil-on-canvas painting by the French artist Pierre-Auguste Renoir, created in 1867 during his early Salon period. The full-length painting depicts model Lise Tréhot posing in a forest. She wears a white muslin dress and holds a black lace parasol to shade her from the sunlight, which filters down through the leaves, contrasting her face in the shadow and her body in the light, highlighting her dress rather than her face. After having several paintings rejected by the Salon, Renoir's Lise was finally accepted and exhibited in May 1868.. Lise, also known as Lise with a Parasol, is an oil-on-canvas painting by the French artist Pierre-Auguste Renoir, created in 1867 during his early Salon period. The full-length painting depicts model Lise Tréhot posing in a forest. She wears a white muslin dress and holds a black lace parasol to shade her from the sunlight, which filters down through the leaves, contrasting her face in the shadow and her body in the light, highlighting her dress rather than her face. After having several paintings rejected by the Salon, Renoir's Lise was finally accepted and exhibited in May 1868. The painting was one of Renoir's first critically successful works. At this time, Renoir's technique was still influenced by Gustave Courbet, but he continued to develop his unique style painting filtered light which he would return to in The Swing (1876) and Dance at Le Moulin de la Galette (1876). The almost life-size portrait and unusual contrast in Lise led several critics to ridicule the work. Théodore Duret, a passionate supporter of the nascent Impressionists, bought the painting from Renoir, who was unable to sell it. Karl Ernst Osthaus, a German patron of avant-garde art, acquired Lise in 1901 for the Museum Folkwang.. 
The Hippopotamus and Crocodile Hunt. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Hippopotamus and Crocodile Hunt is an oil painting on canvas by Peter Paul Rubens (Flemish, 1577 - 1640). Rubens created the genre of the large hunting scene and his studio produced dozens for aristocratic patrons in the 1610s and 1620s. Maximilian I, Elector of Bavaria, commissioned the Hippopotamus and Crocodile Hunt three others depicting lion, wolf and boar hunts, in 1615 to decorate Schleißheim Palace, the summer residence of the Wittelsbach princes. Rubens and his studio produced the four large canvases in Antwerp over the years 1615–16. The Wittelsbach collection formed the nucleus of Alte Pinakothek in Munich, the present location of the Hippopotamus and Crocodile Hunt and The Lion Hunt from the same cycle.. The Hippopotamus and Crocodile Hunt is an oil painting on canvas by Peter Paul Rubens (Flemish, 1577 - 1640). Rubens created the genre of the large hunting scene and his studio produced dozens for aristocratic patrons in the 1610s and 1620s. Maximilian I, Elector of Bavaria, commissioned the Hippopotamus and Crocodile Hunt three others depicting lion, wolf and boar hunts, in 1615 to decorate Schleißheim Palace, the summer residence of the Wittelsbach princes. Rubens and his studio produced the four large canvases in Antwerp over the years 1615–16. The Wittelsbach collection formed the nucleus of Alte Pinakothek in Munich, the present location of the Hippopotamus and Crocodile Hunt and The Lion Hunt from the same cycle. The hippopotamus and crocodile hunt takes place on the banks of the Nile, as indicated by a palm tree in the background. As hippopotami and crocodiles were considered dangerous nuisances, their destruction was a duty performed by noblemen. The hunting party comprises three men, in orientalizing costume, mounted on Arabian horses, who hunt with lance and sword and two valets, clad in roughly-hewn jerkins, one of whom has been killed by one of the beasts. The enraged hippopotamus tramples the crocodile, as both are attacked by the hunters and hounds. The accurately-rendered physical appearances of the hippopotamus and crocodile reflect the period's growing interest in empiricism and natural history, and it has been suggested that Rubens may have traveled to Rome to view a temporarily-displayed dead hippopotamus preserved in brine prior to the painting of the picture. The complexity of the figure grouping, representation of turbulent motion and violent action, high drama and brilliant palette are hallmarks of Rubens' style. This cycle of paintings were looted from the palace during the Napoleonic Wars. Only the Hippopotamus and Crocodile Hunt was returned to Munich., at which time it was added to the collection that is now the Alte Pinakothek. In the notice of January 25, 1847 Eugène Delacroix admired the crocodile as a "masterpiece of execution", remarking, however, that "its action could have been more interesting".. 
Run Carino. Author Name: Steele, T C. . . Pleasant Run (French: Run Carino) is an oil on canvas painting by an American Impressionist painter T. C. Steele, the leader of the Hoosier Group, and known for his Indiana landscapes. It was completed in 1885 and is painted in an Impressionistic style. The dimensions of the painting are 45.72 by 66.04 centimeters. It is housed at the Indianapolis Museum of Art, Indianapolis, Indiana.Pleasant Run was painted soon after the artist returned from five years of study in Munich, Germany. It portrays an area which at the time defined the eastern and southern limits of Indianapolis.. Pleasant Run (French: Run Carino) is an oil on canvas painting by an American Impressionist painter T. C. Steele, the leader of the Hoosier Group, and known for his Indiana landscapes. It was completed in 1885 and is painted in an Impressionistic style. The dimensions of the painting are 45.72 by 66.04 centimeters. It is housed at the Indianapolis Museum of Art, Indianapolis, Indiana. Pleasant Run was painted soon after the artist returned from five years of study in Munich, Germany. It portrays an area which at the time defined the eastern and southern limits of Indianapolis.. 
Curved Form. Author Name: Dame Barbara Hepworth. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_art. . Curved Form (Bryher) is a bronze sculpture by Barbara Hepworth, modeled in 1961.It was an edition of seven.Examples are located at the Annmarie Sculpture Garden, Solomons, Maryland, on loan from the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art,and at the De Doelen concert hall, Rotterdam.It is one of three works modeled in 1961, after discussion with Dag Hammarskjöld, along with Single Form (Chun Quoit), and Single Form (September).. Curved Form (Bryher) is a bronze sculpture by Barbara Hepworth, modeled in 1961. It was an edition of seven.Examples are located at the Annmarie Sculpture Garden, Solomons, Maryland, on loan from the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art,and at the De Doelen concert hall, Rotterdam. It is one of three works modeled in 1961, after discussion with Dag Hammarskjöld, along with Single Form (Chun Quoit), and Single Form (September).. 
Saint Sebastian. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Saint Sebastian is an early sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Executed in 1617 and 1618, it features the Christian martyr Saint Sebastian pinned to a tree, his flesh filled with arrows. It is smaller than life size. The sculpture is part of the Carmen Cervera's private collection and is currently shown in the Museo Thyssen-Bornemisza in Madrid.. Saint Sebastian is an early sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Executed in 1617 and 1618, it features the Christian martyr Saint Sebastian pinned to a tree, his flesh filled with arrows. It is smaller than life size. The sculpture is part of the Carmen Cervera's private collection and is currently shown in the Museo Thyssen-Bornemisza in Madrid.. 
A Lane in a Public Garden in Arles. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . A Lane in a Public Garden in Arles is an 1888 painting by Vincent van Gogh depicting a lane running through the public garden in Arles. The lane is surrounded by trees in different shades of green and yellow, as summer is being replaced by fall. The sky is blue and people are out walking on the lane enjoying the nice surroundings. A Lane in the Public Garden at Arles offers a harmonious vista where Van Gogh’s exquisite command of colors allows him to blend the different shades of green and yellow with the blue of the sky and the stones of the lane.. A Lane in a Public Garden in Arles is an 1888 painting by Vincent van Gogh depicting a lane running through the public garden in Arles. The lane is surrounded by trees in different shades of green and yellow, as summer is being replaced by fall. The sky is blue and people are out walking on the lane enjoying the nice surroundings. A Lane in the Public Garden at Arles offers a harmonious vista where Van Gogh’s exquisite command of colors allows him to blend the different shades of green and yellow with the blue of the sky and the stones of the lane.. 
Radiant Fountains. Author Name: Dennis Oppenheim. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Conceptual_art. . Radiant Fountains is a sculpture by Dennis Oppenheim, installed outside George Bush Intercontinental Airport in Houston, Texas, in the United States.. Radiant Fountains is a sculpture by Dennis Oppenheim, installed outside George Bush Intercontinental Airport in Houston, Texas, in the United States.. 
The Conversation. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . The Conversation, a painting by Henri Matisse dating from 1908–1912, depicts the artist and his wife facing each other before a background of intense blue. It is in the collection of the Hermitage Museum in Saint Petersburg, Russia.This was among several works acquired directly from Matisse in Paris by the Russian collector Sergei Shchukin. After the Russian Revolution, the Shchukin collection was confiscated and, by 1948, was donated to the public along with the Ivan Morozov collection, at the Pushkin Museum of Fine Arts in Moscow and the Hermitage Museum in St Petersburg.. The Conversation, a painting by Henri Matisse dating from 1908–1912, depicts the artist and his wife facing each other before a background of intense blue. It is in the collection of the Hermitage Museum in Saint Petersburg, Russia. This was among several works acquired directly from Matisse in Paris by the Russian collector Sergei Shchukin. After the Russian Revolution, the Shchukin collection was confiscated and, by 1948, was donated to the public along with the Ivan Morozov collection, at the Pushkin Museum of Fine Arts in Moscow and the Hermitage Museum in St Petersburg. Matisse painted The Conversation at a time when he had abandoned the open, spontaneous brushwork of his Fauve period in favor of a flatter and more decorative style. The painting is large (69 5/8 in. x 85 3/8 in., or 177 cm x 217 cm), and shows Matisse in profile, standing at the left in striped pajamas, while his wife, Amélie, sits to the right. The flatly painted blue wall behind them is relieved by a window opening onto a garden landscape. Art historian Hilary Spurling has described this "stern encounter" as "portray[ing] the profound underlying shape or mechanism of a relationship laid down for both parties on the day, soon after they first met in 1897, when Matisse warned his future wife that, dearly as he loved her, he would always love painting more." The pajamas worn by Matisse were fashionable as leisure wear in early 20th century France. They had recently been introduced to Europe from India, where they were worn by tea planters, and Matisse habitually thereafter wore pajamas as his studio working clothes.. 
The Wrestlers. Author Name: George Luks. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Ashcan_School. . The Wrestlers is a 1905 oil painting by George Luks held at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston in Massachusetts, United States. The Wrestlers is Luks' best-known work. The painting depicts two nude men wrestling. He painted it in order to shock members of the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts whom he called "pink-and-white idiots". The Wrestlers was displayed at the 1908 Ashcan School exhibition. A 1910 article in New York World about the Exhibition of Independent Artists included an image of Luks' The Wrestlers despite the fact that the painting did not appear in that exhibition. In a 1908 diary entry, painter John French Sloan writes that The Wrestlers is among the best paintings he ever encountered. In 1992, art critic Carol Clark identified The Wrestlers as one of Luks' best works, ca. The Wrestlers is a 1905 oil painting by George Luks held at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston in Massachusetts, United States. The Wrestlers is Luks' best-known work. The painting depicts two nude men wrestling. He painted it in order to shock members of the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts whom he called "pink-and-white idiots". The Wrestlers was displayed at the 1908 Ashcan School exhibition. A 1910 article in New York World about the Exhibition of Independent Artists included an image of Luks' The Wrestlers despite the fact that the painting did not appear in that exhibition. In a 1908 diary entry, painter John French Sloan writes that The Wrestlers is among the best paintings he ever encountered. In 1992, art critic Carol Clark identified The Wrestlers as one of Luks' best works, calling it "raw, roughly painted" and reflective of Luks' experiences in New York. In 1996, Allen Guttmann compared Luks' The Wrestlers to Thomas Eakins' Wrestlers and Max Slevogt's Wrestling School, writing that all three paintings depict pairs of nude wrestling men lying on the ground in grappling holds. In the 2009 Dictionary of Modern and Contemporary Art, Ian Chilvers and John Glaves-Smith write that The Wrestlers emulates the "bravura painterly technique of artists such as Manet".. 
L'inondation à Saint-Cloud. Author Name: Huet, Paul. . . The flood of Saint-Cloud (French: L'inondation à Saint-Cloud) is an oil painting by French artist Paul Huet, which was first exposed in 1855 at the World Fair in Paris. It is now kept in the Musée du Louvre.. The flood of Saint-Cloud (French: L'inondation à Saint-Cloud) is an oil painting by French artist Paul Huet, which was first exposed in 1855 at the World Fair in Paris. It is now kept in the Musée du Louvre.. 
Living Still Life. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Living Still Life (French: Nature Morte Vivante) is a painting by the artist Salvador Dalí. Dali painted this piece during a period that he called “Nuclear Mysticism.” Nuclear Mysticism is composed of different theories that try to show the relationships between quantum physics and the conscious mind. The different theories are composed of elements that range from “Catalan philosophers” to “classicism, pop art, and nuclear physics.” The painting, done in 1956, currently resides at the Salvador Dali Museum in St. Petersburg, Florida.. Living Still Life (French: Nature Morte Vivante) is a painting by the artist Salvador Dalí. Dali painted this piece during a period that he called “Nuclear Mysticism.” Nuclear Mysticism is composed of different theories that try to show the relationships between quantum physics and the conscious mind. The different theories are composed of elements that range from “Catalan philosophers” to “classicism, pop art, and nuclear physics.” The painting, done in 1956, currently resides at the Salvador Dali Museum in St. Petersburg, Florida. The name Nature Morte Vivante translates in English to “living still life.” It comes from the French translation “nature morte” which directly translates to “dead nature.” By adding “vivante,” which implies “fast moving action and a certain lively quality,” onto the end of that, Dali was essentially naming this piece “dead nature in movement.” This plays into his theme of Nuclear Mysticism which combined elements of art, physics, and science. The theory, as well as the term, “Nuclear Mysticism” was coined by Dali himself. In the late 1940s and early 1950s Dali started to “return to his Catholic roots following World War II.” Nuclear mysticism is composed of different theories by Dali that combine science, physics, math, and art. Post WWII, Dali became fascinated by the atom. Dali stated that after the U.S. dropped the first atomic bomb in Japan that it “shook me [Dali] seismically” and that the atom was his “favorite food for thought.” Dali saw the beauty of the atom and was interested in the how the atom makes up everything. In this painting, Dali wanted to show the motion that all objects have, that although an object is still, it is always full of millions of atoms that are constantly in motion. He portrays this thought throughout his painting. Every object in the painting is moving in some direction, one that an object of that type normally does not do. Dali was also obsessed with the spiral, which he thought to be “the most important feature in nature”, and used it as “a symbol of cosmic order.” Dali portrayed this idea by adding a spiral in the top right corner of his painting. Not only does Dali portray his objects flying around the scene, he shows them twisted in usual ways. For example, the silver bowl is not only shown mid-air, but also twisted in an unnatural way for silver to bend. Dali also infused religious elements of Nuclear Mysticism into this painting. On the table with the white tablecloth, the objects placed closest to the table and that appear to be the least in motion are a glass of wine, two grapes, a pear, a glass bottle with water pouring out, and what appears to be a fig leaf. The fig leaf has long been a religious symbol associated with Christianity. In the Bible, Adam and Eve use fig leaves to cover themselves after their deception in the Garden of Eden. The placement of the fig leaf in Dali’s painting could allude to his reemergence back into Catholicism. Dali took inspiration from Dutch painter Floris Van Schooten and his painting Table with Food for his own painting Nature Morte Vivante. Van Schooten’s painting, which was a very common type of painting for its time, was a very typical still life that depicted food and drinks on a table with a crisp white tablecloth. Dali wanted to give his own take on it, and give it his surrealist signature by showing all of the objects in motion. He also added the tablecloth, which looks very similar to tablecloths that Schooten had used throughout his own paintings. Even though most of the objects Dali portrays are ordinary things, he puts a spin, literally and figuratively, on the motion and placement of the objects. The disarray of the objects alludes to his interest in nuclear mysticism. He believed that “all matter was not at all like it seemed, but instead had attributes that even he was only able to guess.” He wanted to enforce that “that all objects are made of atomic particles in constant motion,” which he portrays through the scattered items. He painted the still life objects to move in a life of his own, without the complacency of a typical still life. Nature Morte Vivante is arguably the most “Dali-esque” painting he has done. He took something as simple and universal as a still life, which artists have been creating and recreating for thousands of years, and put his signature style on it. This painting perfectly captures his theory of nuclear mysticism, and helps to bring it to life and give the public a visual of his theory, Nuclear Mysticism.. 
Mountainous Landscape. Author Name: Jacob van Ruisdael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_Golden_Age_painting. . Mountainous Landscape (c. 1675-1679) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch landscape painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Hermitage.This scene is very similar to other paintings Ruisdael made in this period and these often served as inspiration for later painters of landscape.. Mountainous Landscape (c. 1675-1679) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch landscape painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Hermitage. This painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1911, who wrote; "155. A WATER-MILL IN A NORWEGIAN LANDSCAPE. Sm. 307. A dark rocky landscape is intersected by a river, on which are a raft of timber and a small sailing-boat. To the right, on the farther bank, are a cottage, a pile of timber, and a mill. Near the centre is a castle on a rocky hill. Farther to the left in the distance is a lofty conical hill, the top of which is hidden in cloud. One of Ruisdael's most important pictures. Probably an evening effect, but very much darkened by time. Attributed in the 1838 catalogue to Salomon van Ruisdael. Canvas, 40 inches by 43 inches. Engraved by P. E. Moitte in the Brühl collection. In the collection of Count Brühl. In the Hermitage Palace, St. Petersburg, 1901 catalogue, No. 1147; it was there in 1835 (Sm., who valued it at £300)." This scene is very similar to other paintings Ruisdael made in this period and these often served as inspiration for later painters of landscape.. 
Olympia. Author Name: Édouard Manet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Olympia is a painting by Édouard Manet, first exhibited at the 1865 Paris Salon, which shows a nude woman ("Olympia") lying on a bed being brought flowers by a black servant. Olympia was modelled by Victorine Meurent. Olympia's confrontational gaze caused shock and astonishment when the painting was first exhibited because a number of details in the picture identified her as a prostitute. The French government acquired the painting in 1890 after a public subscription organized by Claude Monet. The painting is on display at the Musée d'Orsay, Paris.. Olympia is a painting by Édouard Manet, first exhibited at the 1865 Paris Salon, which shows a nude woman ("Olympia") lying on a bed being brought flowers by a black servant. Olympia was modelled by Victorine Meurent. Olympia's confrontational gaze caused shock and astonishment when the painting was first exhibited because a number of details in the picture identified her as a prostitute. The French government acquired the painting in 1890 after a public subscription organized by Claude Monet. The painting is on display at the Musée d'Orsay, Paris.. 
La Promenade. Author Name: Pierre-Auguste Renoir. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . La Promenade is an oil on canvas, early Impressionist painting by the French artist Pierre-Auguste Renoir, created in 1870. The work depicts a young couple on an excursion outside of the city, walking on a path through a woodland. Influenced by the rococo revival style during the Second Empire, Renoir's La Promenade reflects the older style and themes of eighteenth-century artists like Jean-Honoré Fragonard and Jean-Antoine Watteau. The work also shows the influence of Claude Monet on Renoir's new approach to painting.. La Promenade is an oil on canvas, early Impressionist painting by the French artist Pierre-Auguste Renoir, created in 1870. The work depicts a young couple on an excursion outside of the city, walking on a path through a woodland. Influenced by the rococo revival style during the Second Empire, Renoir's La Promenade reflects the older style and themes of eighteenth-century artists like Jean-Honoré Fragonard and Jean-Antoine Watteau. The work also shows the influence of Claude Monet on Renoir's new approach to painting.. 
The Holy Family with Saint John the Baptist. Author Name: Nosadella. . . The Holy Family with Saint John the Baptist is an oil painting by Italian artist Giovanni Francesco Bezzi, also known as Nosadella, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. Painted roughly 1550-1560, it depicts Jesus, Mary, Joseph, and John in a powerful, Mannerist style.. The Holy Family with Saint John the Baptist is an oil painting by Italian artist Giovanni Francesco Bezzi, also known as Nosadella, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. Painted roughly 1550-1560, it depicts Jesus, Mary, Joseph, and John in a powerful, Mannerist style.. 
Memory 99. Author Name: Kelly, Lee. . . Memory 99 is an outdoor steel sculpture by Lee Kelly, located at the North Park Blocks in downtown Portland, Oregon.. Memory 99 is an outdoor steel sculpture by Lee Kelly, located at the North Park Blocks in downtown Portland, Oregon.. 
Portrait of Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge. Author Name: Emsley, Paul. . . Portrait of Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge is the first official portrait of Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge, unveiled at the National Portrait Gallery, London on 11 January 2013. Paul Emsley was commissioned to paint the Duchess after being selected from a shortlist by Catherine herself. Catherine had announced the National Portrait Gallery as one of her official patronages in January 2012. Emsley took 15 weeks to complete the painting, which was presented to the trustees of the gallery in November 2012. The Duchess, contrary to considerable criticism in the art world, highly praised the portrait after viewing it initially in a private family gathering.. Portrait of Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge is the first official portrait of Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge, unveiled at the National Portrait Gallery, London on 11 January 2013. Paul Emsley was commissioned to paint the Duchess after being selected from a shortlist by Catherine herself. Catherine had announced the National Portrait Gallery as one of her official patronages in January 2012. Emsley took 15 weeks to complete the painting, which was presented to the trustees of the gallery in November 2012. The Duchess, contrary to considerable criticism in the art world, highly praised the portrait after viewing it initially in a private family gathering.. 
The Prophet Jeremiah. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Prophet Jeremiah is one of the seven Old Testament prophets painted by the Italian High Renaissance master Michelangelo (c. 1542–1545) on the Sistine Chapel ceiling. The Sistine Chapel is in Vatican Palace, in the Vatican City.Influential English critic Roger Fry used the figure to illustrate his emotional elements of design, or how formal elements such as mass and space produce emotion:. The Prophet Jeremiah is one of the seven Old Testament prophets painted by the Italian High Renaissance master Michelangelo (c. 1542–1545) on the Sistine Chapel ceiling. The Sistine Chapel is in Vatican Palace, in the Vatican City. This particular fresco is the first one on the left from the side of the High Altar. The person of Jeremiah is imagined as lost in anguished meditation. Although the painting portrays Jeremiah as lamenting over the Destruction of Jerusalem, critics[who?] have interpreted the figure as a self-portrait by Michelangelo, with the artist lamenting over the weight of his sins. Influential English critic Roger Fry used the figure to illustrate his emotional elements of design, or how formal elements such as mass and space produce emotion:. 
Virgin of the Consellers. Author Name: Dalmau, Lluís. . . The Virgin of the Consellers is a painting by Lluís Dalmau conserved at the National Art Museum of Catalonia.. The Virgin of the Consellers is a painting by Lluís Dalmau conserved at the National Art Museum of Catalonia.. 
The Shadow of Death. Author Name: William Holman Hunt. . . The Shadow of Death is a religious painting by William Holman Hunt, on which he worked from 1870 to 1873, during his second trip to the Holy Land.  It depicts Jesus as a young man prior to his ministry, working as a carpenter. He is shown stretching his arms after sawing wood. The shadow of his outstretched arms falls on a wooden spar on which carpentry tools hang, creating a "shadow of death" prefiguring the crucifixion. His mother Mary is depicted from behind, gazing up at the shadow, having been looking into a box in which she has kept the gifts given by the Magi.. The Shadow of Death is a religious painting by William Holman Hunt, on which he worked from 1870 to 1873, during his second trip to the Holy Land. It depicts Jesus as a young man prior to his ministry, working as a carpenter. He is shown stretching his arms after sawing wood. The shadow of his outstretched arms falls on a wooden spar on which carpentry tools hang, creating a "shadow of death" prefiguring the crucifixion. His mother Mary is depicted from behind, gazing up at the shadow, having been looking into a box in which she has kept the gifts given by the Magi.. 
The watermill. Author Name: Jacob van Ruisdael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_Golden_Age_painting. . The watermill (c. 1660) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch landscape painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the National Gallery of Victoria.Exhibited at the Royal Academy Winter Exhibition, London, 1876, No. 80, and 1902, No. 134. In the collection of the Right Hon. Lewis Fry, Clifton, Bristol. "This scene is very similar to other paintings Ruisdael and his pupil Hobbema made in this period and these often served as inspiration for later painters of landscape.. The watermill (c. 1660) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch landscape painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the National Gallery of Victoria. This painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1911, who wrote; "146. THE WATER-MILL. View across the mill-pool towards the water-mill, which stands amid trees. The same mill as that painted by Hobbema, as, for example, in the two pictures at the Rijksmuseum (see Hobbema, 66, 67). The building on the right is roofed with red tiles, and the timbers are grey. To the left is a green hill. There is no distant view. On the road to the left is a man, followed by a dog. To the right is a flowering elder bush. To judge from the style, the picture was probably painted about the time when Hobbema and Ruisdael worked together (1660-63). Signed with the monogram on the left ; canvas, 25 inches by 27 1/2 inches. Exhibited at the Royal Academy Winter Exhibition, London, 1876, No. 80, and 1902, No. 134. In the collection of the Right Hon. Lewis Fry, Clifton, Bristol. " This scene is very similar to other paintings Ruisdael and his pupil Hobbema made in this period and these often served as inspiration for later painters of landscape. Scholars have tried to locate this specific watermill as it was portrayed so many times, but so far is has only been documented as being "somewhere in Gelderland.". 
Adoration of the Trinity. Author Name: Albrecht Dürer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Adoration of the Trinity (also known as Landauer Altarpiece; German: Allerheiligenbild or Landauer Altar) is an oil-on-panel painting by German Renaissance artist Albrecht Dürer, executed in 1511 and currently housed in the Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna, Austria.. Adoration of the Trinity (also known as Landauer Altarpiece; German: Allerheiligenbild or Landauer Altar) is an oil-on-panel painting by German Renaissance artist Albrecht Dürer, executed in 1511 and currently housed in the Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna, Austria.. 
Christ between Four Angels and the Instruments of the Passion. Author Name: Vittore Carpaccio. . . The Christ between Four Angels and the Instruments of the Passion is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Vittore Carpaccio, executed in 1496 and now housed in the Civici musei e gallerie di storia e arte of Udine, northern Italy.The work was painted for the church of St. Peter Martyr of Udine. It was acquired by the Austrians after the Napoleonic Wars, and assigned to the Hofmuseum in Vienna in 1838. It was given back to Italy in 1919.. The Christ between Four Angels and the Instruments of the Passion is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Vittore Carpaccio, executed in 1496 and now housed in the Civici musei e gallerie di storia e arte of Udine, northern Italy. The work was painted for the church of St. Peter Martyr of Udine. It was acquired by the Austrians after the Napoleonic Wars, and assigned to the Hofmuseum in Vienna in 1838. It was given back to Italy in 1919.. 
Miracle of the Jealous Husband. Author Name: Titian. . . The Miracle of the Jealous Husband is a fresco by the Italian Renaissance master Titian, executed in 1511 as part of the decoration of the Scuola del Santo in Padua, northern Italy.It portrays a man stabbing his wife after she has been unjustly accused of adultery. When the man discovers the truth, he begs for pardon to St. Anthony, who resuscitates the woman (this scene is portrayed in smaller size on the right). The idyllic background is inspired by Giorgione's paintings.. The Miracle of the Jealous Husband is a fresco by the Italian Renaissance master Titian, executed in 1511 as part of the decoration of the Scuola del Santo in Padua, northern Italy. It portrays a man stabbing his wife after she has been unjustly accused of adultery. When the man discovers the truth, he begs for pardon to St. Anthony, who resuscitates the woman (this scene is portrayed in smaller size on the right). The idyllic background is inspired by Giorgione's paintings. The young Titian, described the volume of the wife's raised arm, in the center of the action, by actually sculpting it in relief rather than describing it illusionistically.. 
Over My Dead Body. Author Name: Ramon Casas. . Author Movement: Modernisme. . Over My Dead Body, 1893, is a painting by Ramon Casas, in the National Art Museum of Catalonia in Barcelona.. Over My Dead Body, 1893, is a painting by Ramon Casas, in the National Art Museum of Catalonia in Barcelona.. 
Still Life with Straw Hat. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Still Life with Straw Hat (Stillleben mit gelbem Strohhut) also known as Still Life with Yellow Straw Hat and Still Life with Hat and Pipe was painted by Vincent van Gogh in late November - mid-December 1881 or possibly in 1885 in the town of Nuenen.. Still Life with Straw Hat (Stillleben mit gelbem Strohhut) also known as Still Life with Yellow Straw Hat and Still Life with Hat and Pipe was painted by Vincent van Gogh in late November - mid-December 1881 or possibly in 1885 in the town of Nuenen.. 
Ascension of Christ. Author Name: Pietro Perugino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Ascension of Christ (also known as Sansepolcro Altarpiece; Italian: Pala di Sansepolcro) is a painting by Italian Renaissance master Perugino, dating from around 1510. It is housed in the Cathedral of Sansepolcro, Tuscany, central Italy.. The Ascension of Christ (also known as Sansepolcro Altarpiece; Italian: Pala di Sansepolcro) is a painting by Italian Renaissance master Perugino, dating from around 1510. It is housed in the Cathedral of Sansepolcro, Tuscany, central Italy.. 
Commonwealth. Author Name: Perry, Roland Hinton. . . Commonwealth is a 14-foot-6-inch (4.42 m) gilded statue atop the dome of the Pennsylvania State Capitol in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. It is nicknamed Miss Penn and the Spirit of the Commonwealth. It is also sometimes called Letitia, after the daughter of William Penn, the assumed inspiration for the statue.. Commonwealth is a 14-foot-6-inch (4.42 m) gilded statue atop the dome of the Pennsylvania State Capitol in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. It is nicknamed Miss Penn and the Spirit of the Commonwealth. It is also sometimes called Letitia, after the daughter of William Penn, the assumed inspiration for the statue.. 
Nødhavn Ved Norskekysten. Author Name: Hans Fredrik Gude. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Norwegian_romantic_nationalism. . Nødhavn Ved Norskekysten (English translation: Port of Refuge on the Norwegian Coast or Norwegian Harbor of Refuge) is a painting by Norwegian romanticist painter Hans Gude completed in 1873.. Nødhavn Ved Norskekysten (English translation: Port of Refuge on the Norwegian Coast or Norwegian Harbor of Refuge) is a painting by Norwegian romanticist painter Hans Gude completed in 1873.. 
Golden Summer, Eaglemont. Author Name: Arthur Streeton. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Heidelberg_School. . Golden Summer, Eaglemont is an 1889 painting by the Australian artist Arthur Streeton. Painted during a summer drought, it is an idyllic depiction of undulating plains in rural Heidelberg on the outskirts of Melbourne. It is one of Streeton's most famous works and is considered a masterpiece of Australian Impressionism.It was the first painting by an Australian-born artist to be exhibited at both the Royal Academy in London, in 1890, and the Paris Salon the following year, where it won an award.. Golden Summer, Eaglemont is an 1889 painting by the Australian artist Arthur Streeton. Painted during a summer drought, it is an idyllic depiction of undulating plains in rural Heidelberg on the outskirts of Melbourne. It is one of Streeton's most famous works and is considered a masterpiece of Australian Impressionism. It was painted en plein air at an artists' camp established by Streeton at Mount Eagle (now Eaglemont), where he and other Australian Impressionists occupied an old weatherboard house. Streeton described the location in a letter to fellow painter Tom Roberts, which he calls "our hill of gold": It was the first painting by an Australian-born artist to be exhibited at both the Royal Academy in London, in 1890, and the Paris Salon the following year, where it won an award. Ahead of its auction in 1924, Lionel Lindsay extolled the work in the hope that it would enter a public gallery: It was acquired by a private collector for 1,000 guineas, then a record for a painting by an Australian artist. It broke the same record in 1995 when it was purchased by the National Gallery of Australia for $3.5 million.. 
A View through Three of the North-Western Arches of the Third Storey of the Coliseum. Author Name: Christoffer Wilhelm Eckersberg. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Danish_Golden_Age. . A View through Three of the North-Western Arches of the Third Storey of the Coliseum is a painting by the Danish painter C. W. Eckersberg. It was painted in 1815 or 1816 when Eckersberg sojourned in Rome, painting a series of works of the ancient ruins of the city.The details of the ruins are precisely observed as they appear at the site in Rome. The views of the city, however, are a construction as Eckersberg connected three separate views to create a new harmony. The Royal Engraving Collection has two sketches Eckersberg did to plan his work.. A View through Three of the North-Western Arches of the Third Storey of the Coliseum is a painting by the Danish painter C. W. Eckersberg. It was painted in 1815 or 1816 when Eckersberg sojourned in Rome, painting a series of works of the ancient ruins of the city. The details of the ruins are precisely observed as they appear at the site in Rome. The views of the city, however, are a construction as Eckersberg connected three separate views to create a new harmony. The Royal Engraving Collection has two sketches Eckersberg did to plan his work. An example of Danish Golden Age painting, the work was included in a Danish canon on art.. 
Abraham Served by Three Angels. Author Name: Antonello da Messina. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . St. Jerome Penitent and Abraham Served by the Angels are two paintings by the Italian Renaissance master Antonello da Messina. They are housed in the Museo Nazionale della Magna Grecia, Reggio Calabria.These two panels are considered amongst the first works by Antonello da Messina. They were both intended for devotion of private owners.. St. Jerome Penitent and Abraham Served by the Angels are two paintings by the Italian Renaissance master Antonello da Messina. They are housed in the Museo Nazionale della Magna Grecia, Reggio Calabria. These two panels are considered amongst the first works by Antonello da Messina. They were both intended for devotion of private owners.. 
Paternoster Vents. Author Name: Thomas Heatherwick. . . Paternoster Vents, often referred to as simply Vents and also known as Angel's Wings, is an outdoor 2002 stainless steel sculpture by Thomas Heatherwick, installed at Paternoster Square in London, United Kingdom. The sculpture provides ventilation for an underground electrical substation.The sculpture has been likened to, and referred to by name as, "angel's wings".. Paternoster Vents, often referred to as simply Vents and also known as Angel's Wings, is an outdoor 2002 stainless steel sculpture by Thomas Heatherwick, installed at Paternoster Square in London, United Kingdom. The sculpture provides ventilation for an underground electrical substation. The sculpture has been likened to, and referred to by name as, "angel's wings".. 
Portrait of Jeanne Kéfer. Author Name: Fernand Khnopff. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Symbolism_(arts). . Portrait of Jeanne Kéfer is a portrait by Fernand Khnopff, painted in 1885. Currently housed and exhibited in the The J. Paul Getty Museum, Los Angeles.. Portrait of Jeanne Kéfer is a portrait by Fernand Khnopff, painted in 1885. Currently housed and exhibited in the The J. Paul Getty Museum, Los Angeles.. 
Two Venetian Ladies. Author Name: Vittore Carpaccio. . . Two Venetian Ladies is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Vittore Carpaccio.The painting, believed to be a quarter of the original work, was executed around 1490 and shows two unknown Venetian ladies. The top portion of the panel, called Hunting on the Lagoon is in the Getty Museum, and another matching panel is missing. The painting was formerly considered to show two courtesans. Modern art historians think them more likely members to be of the patrician Torella family, as suggested by their fine clothes and the pearl necklaces, but academic debate continues, as with other similar Venetian paintings of the period. Several objects - the white kerchief, the pearls and the animals (the doves, Venus's bird) are symbols of chastity. Note the chopines, or platform clogs, on the left.. Two Venetian Ladies is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Vittore Carpaccio. The painting, believed to be a quarter of the original work, was executed around 1490 and shows two unknown Venetian ladies. The top portion of the panel, called Hunting on the Lagoon is in the Getty Museum, and another matching panel is missing. The painting was formerly considered to show two courtesans. Modern art historians think them more likely members to be of the patrician Torella family, as suggested by their fine clothes and the pearl necklaces, but academic debate continues, as with other similar Venetian paintings of the period. Several objects - the white kerchief, the pearls and the animals (the doves, Venus's bird) are symbols of chastity. Note the chopines, or platform clogs, on the left. Another painted panel, now in the Getty Museum , was published in 1944, and it was later realized that this is part of the same work, fitting above this part: it portrays several boats in a lagoon, and would explain the meaning of the scene, as two women awaiting their husbands' return after an expedition hunting, or fishing with cormorants, in the Venetian lagoon. This discovery was verified by an in depth technical analysis, comparing the two fragmentary panels. Another panel the same size as these two combined would have been on the left; probably the two were hinged together to make a diptych, or a folding door or shutter. The Getty panel has an illusionistic letter rack painted on the back of the panel, which was presumably matched on this panel. This appears to be the earliest small-scale trompe-l'œil painting since antiquity.. 
Smog. Author Name: Tony Smith. . . Smog is a public artwork by American artist Tony Smith located to the south east of McCardell Bicentennial Hall on the Middlebury College campus, in Middlebury, Vermont. An example of minimalist sculpture, the piece is a lattice of 45 octahedra, standing on 22 tetrahedra, and topped with 15 prisms. It is fabricated from aluminum, painted black. This work is first in an edition of three, with one artist's proof.Lippincotts, LLC was commissioned by the estate of the artist to manage the construction of this artwork, and the piece was fabricated by WeldingWorks, Inc. of Madison, CT in 2000.. Smog is a public artwork by American artist Tony Smith located to the south east of McCardell Bicentennial Hall on the Middlebury College campus, in Middlebury, Vermont. An example of minimalist sculpture, the piece is a lattice of 45 octahedra, standing on 22 tetrahedra, and topped with 15 prisms. It is fabricated from aluminum, painted black. This work is first in an edition of three, with one artist's proof. Lippincotts, LLC was commissioned by the estate of the artist to manage the construction of this artwork, and the piece was fabricated by WeldingWorks, Inc. of Madison, CT in 2000.. 
Mary McLeod Bethune Memorial. Author Name: Robert Berks. . . Mary McLeod Bethune Memorial is a bronze statue honoring educator and activist Mary McLeod Bethune, by Robert Berks.The monument is the first statue erected on public land in Washington, D.C. to honor an African American and a woman. The statue features an elderly Mrs. Bethune handing a copy of her legacy to two young black children. Mrs. Bethune is supporting herself by a cane given to her by President Franklin D. Roosevelt. The statue was unveiled on the anniversary of her 99th birthday, July 10, 1974, before a crowd of over 18,000 people. The funds for the monument were raised by the National Council of Negro Women, the organization Mrs. Bethune founded in 1935.. Mary McLeod Bethune Memorial is a bronze statue honoring educator and activist Mary McLeod Bethune, by Robert Berks. The monument is the first statue erected on public land in Washington, D.C. to honor an African American and a woman. The statue features an elderly Mrs. Bethune handing a copy of her legacy to two young black children. Mrs. Bethune is supporting herself by a cane given to her by President Franklin D. Roosevelt. The statue was unveiled on the anniversary of her 99th birthday, July 10, 1974, before a crowd of over 18,000 people. The funds for the monument were raised by the National Council of Negro Women, the organization Mrs. Bethune founded in 1935. It is located in Lincoln Park, at East Capitol Street and 12th Street N.E. Washington, D.C. The inscription reads:(Front bottom of Bethune's dress:) (copyright symbol)73Berks (Front of base:) MARY McLEOD BETHUNE1875 1955 (Front of base, in script:) Let her works praise her (Bronze plaque, front of base:) ERECTEDJULY 10, 1974BY THENATIONAL COUNCIL OF NEGRO WOMEN, INC.DOROTHY I. HEIGHTPRESIDENT (Bronze plaque running around sides of base:) I LEAVE YOU LOVE. I LEAVE YOU HOPE. I LEAVE YOU THE CHALLENGE OF DEVELOPING CONFIDENCE IN ONE ANOTHER. I LEAVE YOU A THIRST FOR EDUCATION. I LEAVE YOU A RESPECT FOR THE USE OF POWER. I LEAVE YOU FAITH. I LEAVE YOU RACIAL DIGNITY. I LEAVE YOU A DESIRE TO LIVE HARMONIOUSLY WITH YOUR FELLOW MEN. I LEAVE YOU FINALLY, A RESPONSIBILITY TO OUR YOUNG PEOPLE. Mary McLeod Bethune (in script). 
Head of a Halberdier. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . Head of a Halberdier is a fragment of a Hieronymus Bosch painting. It is currently in the Museo del Prado in Madrid.. Head of a Halberdier is a fragment of a Hieronymus Bosch painting. It is currently in the Museo del Prado in Madrid.. 
The Pipes of Pan. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The Pipes of Pan (French: La flûte de pan) is an oil-on-canvas by Spanish artist Pablo Picasso. Executed in 1923 during Picasso's classical period, the painting depicts two statuesque men of mythological origins.. The Pipes of Pan (French: La flûte de pan) is an oil-on-canvas by Spanish artist Pablo Picasso. Executed in 1923 during Picasso's classical period, the painting depicts two statuesque men of mythological origins.. 
The Martyrdom of Saint Lawrence. Author Name: Titian. . . The Martyrdom of Saint Lawrence is a 1558 painting by Titian, now in the church of I Gesuiti in Venice. It so impressed Philip II of Spain that he commissioned a second version in 1567 for the basilica at El Escorial.. The Martyrdom of Saint Lawrence is a 1558 painting by Titian, now in the church of I Gesuiti in Venice. It so impressed Philip II of Spain that he commissioned a second version in 1567 for the basilica at El Escorial.. 
House with an Arch. Author Name: Sergei Ivanovich Osipov. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The painting of House with an Arch is a work by the Russian artist Sergei I. Osipov (1915–1985), executed in 1972 during the one of his visit of Staritsa ancient town and recognized as one of his most famous works in the genre of winter cityscape.. The painting of House with an Arch is a work by the Russian artist Sergei I. Osipov (1915–1985), executed in 1972 during the one of his visit of Staritsa ancient town and recognized as one of his most famous works in the genre of winter cityscape.. 
The Ideal Scout. Author Name: R. Tait McKenzie. . . Ideal Boy Scout is a public artwork by Canadian born artist Robert Tait McKenzie, located on the Walter and Olive Stiemke Scout Service Center, which is near Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA.It is a copy of the 1915 original, and cast in 1985.The bronze life-size sculpture of a Boy Scout in uniform is five feet and ten inches high and rests on a brick pedestal.. Ideal Boy Scout is a public artwork by Canadian born artist Robert Tait McKenzie, located on the Walter and Olive Stiemke Scout Service Center, which is near Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA. It is a copy of the 1915 original, and cast in 1985. The bronze life-size sculpture of a Boy Scout in uniform is five feet and ten inches high and rests on a brick pedestal.. 
The Scapegoat. Author Name: William Holman Hunt. . . The Scapegoat (1854–56) is a painting by William Holman Hunt which depicts the "scapegoat" described in the Book of Leviticus. On the Day of Atonement, a goat would have its horns wrapped with a red cloth – representing the sins of the community – and be driven off.. The Scapegoat (1854–56) is a painting by William Holman Hunt which depicts the "scapegoat" described in the Book of Leviticus. On the Day of Atonement, a goat would have its horns wrapped with a red cloth – representing the sins of the community – and be driven off. He started painting on the shore of the Dead Sea, and continued in his studio in London. The work exists in two versions, a small version in brighter colours with a dark-haired goat and a rainbow, in Manchester Art Gallery, and a larger version in more muted tones with a light-haired goat in the Lady Lever Art Gallery in Port Sunlight. Both were created over the same period, with the smaller Manchester version being described as "preliminary" to the larger Lady Lever version, which was the one exhibited.. 
Christ Carrying the Cross. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . Christ Carrying the Cross is a painting by Hieronymus Bosch, executed in the 1480s. It is at the Kunsthistorisches ("art history") Museum, in Vienna, Austria.Christ Child with a Walking Frame is painted on the back of this painting.. Christ Carrying the Cross is a painting by Hieronymus Bosch, executed in the 1480s. It is at the Kunsthistorisches ("art history") Museum, in Vienna, Austria. Christ Child with a Walking Frame is painted on the back of this painting.. 
Portrait of Jakob Muffel. Author Name: Albrecht Dürer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Jakob Muffel is a painting by German Renaissance master Albrecht Dürer, signed and dated from 1526, now housed in the Gemäldegalerie of Berlin, Germany.The work was executed in Nuremberg, the same year in which the German artist portrayed Johann Kleberger and Hieronymus Holzschuher. Jakob Muffel was burgmaster of the city in the year in which Dürer had donated it his four panels of the Four Apostles and the two paintings are perhaps related to each other.. The Portrait of Jakob Muffel is a painting by German Renaissance master Albrecht Dürer, signed and dated from 1526, now housed in the Gemäldegalerie of Berlin, Germany. The work was executed in Nuremberg, the same year in which the German artist portrayed Johann Kleberger and Hieronymus Holzschuher. Jakob Muffel was burgmaster of the city in the year in which Dürer had donated it his four panels of the Four Apostles and the two paintings are perhaps related to each other. The panel is the same size as the portrait of Holzschuher and it has thus been speculated that they may have been commissioned for an official celebration and exhibited at the city's town hall. 
Pastoral Concert. Author Name: Giorgione. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Pastoral Concert, Fête champêtre or Le Concert champêtre is an oil painting of c. 1509 attributed to either of the Italian Renaissance masters, Titian (more usually today) or Giorgione. It is in the Musée du Louvre in Paris.. The Pastoral Concert, Fête champêtre or Le Concert champêtre is an oil painting of c. 1509 attributed to either of the Italian Renaissance masters, Titian (more usually today) or Giorgione. It is in the Musée du Louvre in Paris.. 
Portrait of the Infanta Margaret Theresa. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Infanta Margarita Teresa in a Pink Dress is an oil on canvas portrait of Margaret Theresa of Spain by the Spanish painter Diego Velázquez, though his identification as its author is not considered secure. It is now in the Prado Museum in Madrid.It was generally considered to be the last work in his oeuvre, with the dress by Velázquez himself and the head (left unfinished on Velázquez's death) and the bottom of the curtains completed by his pupil Juan Bautista del Mazo. However, recent studies by experts suggest it may be entirely by Mazo. The Prado Museum currently assigns the work to Mazo.. Infanta Margarita Teresa in a Pink Dress is an oil on canvas portrait of Margaret Theresa of Spain by the Spanish painter Diego Velázquez, though his identification as its author is not considered secure. It is now in the Prado Museum in Madrid. It was generally considered to be the last work in his oeuvre, with the dress by Velázquez himself and the head (left unfinished on Velázquez's death) and the bottom of the curtains completed by his pupil Juan Bautista del Mazo. However, recent studies by experts suggest it may be entirely by Mazo. The Prado Museum currently assigns the work to Mazo. Its subject was the royal most frequently portrayed by Velázquez, also appearing in his Las Meninas and Infanta Margarita Teresa in a Blue Dress. In the final years of his life he spent long periods producing portraits of her to send to the Austrian court for political reasons and in response to certain matrimonial arrangements made between the two courts. Infanta Margarita Teresa in a Blue Dress is still in Vienna as are two 1652-53 portraits of her aged one or two in a silver and pink dress. A replica of the latter of the two, with variations, is in the Liria Palace in Madrid, though this is attributed to another painter.. 
Saint George and the Dragon. Author Name: Tintoretto. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . Saint George and the Dragon or Saint George Killing the Dragon is a 1555 or 1588 painting by the Venetian artist Tintoretto. It was later acquired by the English collector William Holwell Carr, who bequeathed it to the National Gallery, where it now hangs.. Saint George and the Dragon or Saint George Killing the Dragon is a 1555 or 1588 painting by the Venetian artist Tintoretto. It was later acquired by the English collector William Holwell Carr, who bequeathed it to the National Gallery, where it now hangs.. 
Untitled. Author Name: David von Schlegell. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Constructivism_(art). . Untitled (L's), a public sculpture by American artist David Von Schlegell, is located on the Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis campus, which is near downtown Indianapolis, Indiana. The sculpture is located just north of Joseph Taylor Hall in a grassy courtyard adjacent to Michigan Street. Cavanaugh hall frames the courtyard to the west, the library and Business building are east of the courtyard. This sculpture was created in 1978, and installed at IUPUI in 1980. The sculpture is a Minimalist composition of three identical steel L's. The L structures have a vertical beam that is 55 feet (17 m) tall and a horizontal beam of 45 feet (14 m). The beams themselves are 16 inches (410 mm) high and 12 inches (300 mm) wide.. Untitled (L's), a public sculpture by American artist David Von Schlegell, is located on the Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis campus, which is near downtown Indianapolis, Indiana. The sculpture is located just north of Joseph Taylor Hall in a grassy courtyard adjacent to Michigan Street. Cavanaugh hall frames the courtyard to the west, the library and Business building are east of the courtyard. This sculpture was created in 1978, and installed at IUPUI in 1980. The sculpture is a Minimalist composition of three identical steel L's. The L structures have a vertical beam that is 55 feet (17 m) tall and a horizontal beam of 45 feet (14 m). The beams themselves are 16 inches (410 mm) high and 12 inches (300 mm) wide.. 
The Morning Star. Author Name: Joan Miró. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . Constellations is a series of 23 small paintings on paper, initiated by Joan Miró in 1939 in Varengeville-sur-Mer and completed in 1941 between Mallorca and Mont-roig del Camp. The Fundació Joan Miró preserves a work of this series and The Morning Star, one of the most important pieces of the series. The painter gave to his wife and she later donated to the Foundation.. Constellations is a series of 23 small paintings on paper, initiated by Joan Miró in 1939 in Varengeville-sur-Mer and completed in 1941 between Mallorca and Mont-roig del Camp. The Fundació Joan Miró preserves a work of this series and The Morning Star, one of the most important pieces of the series. The painter gave to his wife and she later donated to the Foundation.. 
Bust of Antonio Cepparelli. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Bust of Antonio Cepparelli is a sculptural portrait bust by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. It was executed around 1622. It is in the museum of the church of San Giovanni dei Fiorentini in Rome.. The Bust of Antonio Cepparelli is a sculptural portrait bust by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. It was executed around 1622. It is in the museum of the church of San Giovanni dei Fiorentini in Rome.. 
The Music Lesson. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . The Music Lesson or Lady at the Virginals with a Gentleman by Johannes Vermeer, also known as Jan Vermeer, is a painting of young female pupil receiving the titular music lesson. It has been estimated to have been painted between 1662 and 1665. The medium of the work is oil on canvas. It measures 74.6 cm by 64.1 cm.. The Music Lesson or Lady at the Virginals with a Gentleman by Johannes Vermeer, also known as Jan Vermeer, is a painting of young female pupil receiving the titular music lesson. It has been estimated to have been painted between 1662 and 1665. The medium of the work is oil on canvas. It measures 74.6 cm by 64.1 cm.. 
Colonel Acland and Lord Sydney: The Archers. Author Name: Sir Joshua Reynolds. . . Colonel Acland and Lord Sydney: The Archers is an oil-on-canvas painting by Sir Joshua Reynolds undertaken between 1769 and 1770. The artwork depicts the two aristocrats Colonel John Dyke Acland (1746–1778; at right) and Lord Sydney (1732–1774), a diplomat. Reynolds began the work in 1769, and completed it the next year. In 1769 Reynolds had become the first president of the new Royal Academy. In September 2005, the Tate Gallery purchased the painting for more than £2.5 million, equivalent to US$4.4 million.. Colonel Acland and Lord Sydney: The Archers is an oil-on-canvas painting by Sir Joshua Reynolds undertaken between 1769 and 1770. The artwork depicts the two aristocrats Colonel John Dyke Acland (1746–1778; at right) and Lord Sydney (1732–1774), a diplomat. Reynolds began the work in 1769, and completed it the next year. In 1769 Reynolds had become the first president of the new Royal Academy. In September 2005, the Tate Gallery purchased the painting for more than £2.5 million, equivalent to US$4.4 million.. 
No. 61. Author Name: Mark Rothko. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . No. 61 (Rust and Blue) is a 1953 painting by the Russian-American Abstract expressionist artist Mark Rothko. The work was first exhibited at the Museum of Modern Art, New York in 1961. In common with Rothko's other works from this period, No. 61 consists of large expanses of colour delineated by uneven, hazy shades.. No. 61 (Rust and Blue) is a 1953 painting by the Russian-American Abstract expressionist artist Mark Rothko. The work was first exhibited at the Museum of Modern Art, New York in 1961. In common with Rothko's other works from this period, No. 61 consists of large expanses of colour delineated by uneven, hazy shades.. 
In the Sun. Author Name: Alexander Nikolayevich Samokhvalov. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . In the Sun (Russian: Под солнцем) is a painting by Alexander Samokhvalov (Russian: Алекса́ндр Никола́евич Самохва́лов, 1894–1971), depicting his wife, the artist Maria Alexseevna Kleshchar-Samokhvalova (Russian: Мария Алексеевна Клещар-Самохвалова; 1915–2000).. In the Sun (Russian: Под солнцем) is a painting by Alexander Samokhvalov (Russian: Алекса́ндр Никола́евич Самохва́лов, 1894–1971), depicting his wife, the artist Maria Alexseevna Kleshchar-Samokhvalova (Russian: Мария Алексеевна Клещар-Самохвалова; 1915–2000).. 
Self-Portrait in a Striped T-shirt. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . Self-Portrait in a Striped T-shirt (1906) is a painting in oil on canvas by Henri Matisse from his Fauvism period, in the collection of Statens Museum for Kunst, Copenhagen, Denmark.. Self-Portrait in a Striped T-shirt (1906) is a painting in oil on canvas by Henri Matisse from his Fauvism period, in the collection of Statens Museum for Kunst, Copenhagen, Denmark.. 
Panciatichi Assumption. Author Name: Andrea del Sarto. . Author Movement: Mannerism. . Panciatichi Assumption (Italian: Assunta Panciatichi) is a painting by Italian Renaissance artist Andrea del Sarto, painted c. 1522-1523. It is housed in the Galleria Palatina of Palazzo Pitti, Florence, Italy.. Panciatichi Assumption (Italian: Assunta Panciatichi) is a painting by Italian Renaissance artist Andrea del Sarto, painted c. 1522-1523. It is housed in the Galleria Palatina of Palazzo Pitti, Florence, Italy.. 
Fallen Firefighters Memorial. Author Name: Hai Ying Wu. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Socialist_realism. . Fallen Firefighters Memorial is a bronze sculpture group by Hai Ying Wu.It is located in Occidental Park, Seattle, near the intersection of Occidental Avenue and Main Street.It was inspired by the deaths of four Seattle firefighters who died January 5, 1995 fighting a fire in the Mary Pang warehouse in Seattle's International District.. Fallen Firefighters Memorial is a bronze sculpture group by Hai Ying Wu. It is located in Occidental Park, Seattle, near the intersection of Occidental Avenue and Main Street. It was inspired by the deaths of four Seattle firefighters who died January 5, 1995 fighting a fire in the Mary Pang warehouse in Seattle's International District.. 
The Ship of Fools. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . Ship of Fools (painted c. 1490–1500) is a painting by Hieronymus Bosch, now on display in the Musée du Louvre, Paris. The surviving painting is a fragment of a triptych that was cut into several parts. The Ship of Fools was painted on one of the wings of the altarpiece, and is about two thirds of its original length. The bottom third of the panel belongs to Yale University Art Gallery and is exhibited under the title Allegory of Gluttony. The wing on the other side, which has more or less retained its full length, is the Death and the Miser, now in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C.. The two panels together would have represented the two extremes of prodigiality and miserliness, condemning and caricaturing both.. Ship of Fools (painted c. 1490–1500) is a painting by Hieronymus Bosch, now on display in the Musée du Louvre, Paris. The surviving painting is a fragment of a triptych that was cut into several parts. The Ship of Fools was painted on one of the wings of the altarpiece, and is about two thirds of its original length. The bottom third of the panel belongs to Yale University Art Gallery and is exhibited under the title Allegory of Gluttony. The wing on the other side, which has more or less retained its full length, is the Death and the Miser, now in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C.. The two panels together would have represented the two extremes of prodigiality and miserliness, condemning and caricaturing both. Dendrochronological study has dated the wood to 1491, and it is tempting to see the painting as a response to Sebastian Brant's Das Narrenschiff or even the illustrations of the first edition of 1493. Another possible source for the ship allegory is the 14th-century Le Pèlerinage de l'Âme by Guillaume de Deguileville , which was printed in Dutch in 1486 (shortly after William Caxton printed it as The Pylgremage of the Sowle in 1483). A Drawing of the Ship of Fools, also in the Louvre, appears to be a later copy.. 
Madonna with Child. Author Name: Carlo Crivelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Gothic_art. . The Madonna with Child by Renaissance artist Carlo Crivelli is a Madonna painting dating to 1470.It was painted with tempera on wood, then transferred to canvas. It was a piece of an altar in the Church of the Osservanti in Macerata, Marche, Italy. It is now located in the Pinacoteca di Macerata.. The Madonna with Child by Renaissance artist Carlo Crivelli is a Madonna painting dating to 1470. It was painted with tempera on wood, then transferred to canvas. It was a piece of an altar in the Church of the Osservanti in Macerata, Marche, Italy. It is now located in the Pinacoteca di Macerata.. 
Pietà. Author Name: Pietro Perugino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Pietà is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Pietro Perugino, executed around 1483-1493, and housed in the Uffizi Gallery, Florence.. Pietà is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Pietro Perugino, executed around 1483-1493, and housed in the Uffizi Gallery, Florence.. 
Conversations with Magic Stones, Figure 3. Author Name: Dame Barbara Hepworth. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_art. . Conversations with Magic Stones, Figure Three is a public art work by English artist Barbara Hepworth located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture is an abstract, totemic form made of bronze; it is installed on the lawn.. Conversations with Magic Stones, Figure Three is a public art work by English artist Barbara Hepworth located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture is an abstract, totemic form made of bronze; it is installed on the lawn.. 
Cirque Calder. Author Name: Alexander "Sandy" Calder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstraction_(art). . Cirque Calder is an artistic rendering of a circus created by the American artist Alexander Calder. It involves wire models rigged to perform the various functions of the circus performers they represent, from contortionists to sword eaters to lion tamers. The models are made of various items, generally wire and wood. Calder began improvising performances of this circus during his time in Paris. He would comment in French during the performance.The Cirque Calder is part of the permanent collection of the Whitney Museum in New York.. Cirque Calder is an artistic rendering of a circus created by the American artist Alexander Calder. It involves wire models rigged to perform the various functions of the circus performers they represent, from contortionists to sword eaters to lion tamers. The models are made of various items, generally wire and wood. Calder began improvising performances of this circus during his time in Paris. He would comment in French during the performance. The Cirque Calder is part of the permanent collection of the Whitney Museum in New York.. 
Sealing the Tomb. Author Name: William  Hogarth. . . Sealing the Tomb is a great altarpiece triptych by William Hogarth in the English city of Bristol. It was commissioned for St Mary Redcliffe in 1755. In the 19th century attempts were made to sell it, but it was given to the Bristol Fine Art Academy, which became the Royal West of England Academy. Its size made it difficult to display and it was rolled up and stored in the basement. In 1973 it was displayed in the ecclesiastical museum created in the war-damaged Church of St Nicholas. When the museum closed it was converted to offices; however the triptych remains in the building.. Sealing the Tomb is a great altarpiece triptych by William Hogarth in the English city of Bristol. It was commissioned for St Mary Redcliffe in 1755. In the 19th century attempts were made to sell it, but it was given to the Bristol Fine Art Academy, which became the Royal West of England Academy. Its size made it difficult to display and it was rolled up and stored in the basement. In 1973 it was displayed in the ecclesiastical museum created in the war-damaged Church of St Nicholas. When the museum closed it was converted to offices; however the triptych remains in the building.. 
Portrait of a Lady. Author Name: Titian. . . Portrait of a Lady, also known as La Schiavona (the woman from Dalmatia), is a 1510–12 portrait by Titian of an unknown woman.Its subject is shown three-quarter length and in relief (inspired by ancient cameos) on a raised section of the parapet. The parapet is original, though the raised section appears to be a revision by Titian himself (drapery painted under it can now be seen through it). It is signed TV on the parapet. It was presented to the National Gallery in London in 1942 by Sir Francis Cook, Bt, in memory of his father Herbert, via the Art Fund – it is still in the Gallery's collection, as NG5385.. Portrait of a Lady, also known as La Schiavona (the woman from Dalmatia), is a 1510–12 portrait by Titian of an unknown woman. Its subject is shown three-quarter length and in relief (inspired by ancient cameos) on a raised section of the parapet. The parapet is original, though the raised section appears to be a revision by Titian himself (drapery painted under it can now be seen through it). It is signed TV on the parapet. It was presented to the National Gallery in London in 1942 by Sir Francis Cook, Bt, in memory of his father Herbert, via the Art Fund – it is still in the Gallery's collection, as NG5385. From October 2009 to January 2010, La Schiavona was loaned to the Henry Moore Institute in Leeds to be shown as part of an exhibition called "Sculpture In Painting".. 
Madone de Laroque. Author Name: Leonardo da Vinci. . . Madonna of Laroque is an oil painting on a poplar board (48 cm / 59 cm) created between 1502-1503. It represents the Child and his mother next to John the Baptist. This painting could be by Leonardo da Vinci.. Madonna of Laroque is an oil painting on a poplar board (48 cm / 59 cm) created between 1502-1503. It represents the Child and his mother next to John the Baptist. This painting could be by Leonardo da Vinci.. 
Characters and Caricaturas. Author Name: William  Hogarth. . . Characters and Caricaturas is an engraving by English artist William Hogarth, that he produced as the subscription ticket for his 1743 series of prints, Marriage à-la-mode, and which was eventually issued as a print in its own right. Critics had sometimes dismissed the exaggerated features of Hogarth's characters as caricature and, by way of an answer, he produced this picture filled with characterisations accompanied by a simple illustration of the difference between characterisation and caricature.. Characters and Caricaturas is an engraving by English artist William Hogarth, that he produced as the subscription ticket for his 1743 series of prints, Marriage à-la-mode, and which was eventually issued as a print in its own right. Critics had sometimes dismissed the exaggerated features of Hogarth's characters as caricature and, by way of an answer, he produced this picture filled with characterisations accompanied by a simple illustration of the difference between characterisation and caricature.. 
Flowering peach trees. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Flowering Orchards is a series of paintings which Dutch artist Vincent van Gogh executed in Arles, in southern France in the spring of 1888. Van Gogh arrived in Arles in February 1888 in a snowstorm; within two weeks the weather changed and the fruit trees were in blossom. Appreciating the symbolism of rebirth, Van Gogh worked with optimism and zeal on about fourteen paintings of flowering trees in the early spring. He also made paintings of flowering trees in Saint-Rémy the following year, in 1889.. Flowering Orchards is a series of paintings which Dutch artist Vincent van Gogh executed in Arles, in southern France in the spring of 1888. Van Gogh arrived in Arles in February 1888 in a snowstorm; within two weeks the weather changed and the fruit trees were in blossom. Appreciating the symbolism of rebirth, Van Gogh worked with optimism and zeal on about fourteen paintings of flowering trees in the early spring. He also made paintings of flowering trees in Saint-Rémy the following year, in 1889. Flowering trees were special to Van Gogh; they represented awakening and hope. He enjoyed them aesthetically and found joy in painting flowering trees. The 'trees and orchards in bloom' paintings that he made reflect Impressionist, Divisionist and Japanese woodcut influences.. 
A Woman Walking in a Garden. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . A Woman Walking in a Garden was painted by Vincent van Gogh in 1887. As the title indicates, it depicts a woman walking through a garden. Greenery is everywhere and numerous trees can be seen in the background.In 1886 van Gogh left Holland for Paris never to return. His brother Theo, a successful Parisian art dealer, provided van Gogh the support and connections for an immersion in modern art. In the two years, from 1886 through 1888, van Gogh emerged as a sophisticated, thoughtful and provoking artist.. A Woman Walking in a Garden was painted by Vincent van Gogh in 1887. As the title indicates, it depicts a woman walking through a garden. Greenery is everywhere and numerous trees can be seen in the background. In 1886 van Gogh left Holland for Paris never to return. His brother Theo, a successful Parisian art dealer, provided van Gogh the support and connections for an immersion in modern art. In the two years, from 1886 through 1888, van Gogh emerged as a sophisticated, thoughtful and provoking artist. During 1886 van Gogh was introduced to Impressionist artists and their works, such as Edgar Degas, Claude Monet, Auguste Renoir, Georges Seurat and Paul Signac. In 1887 van Gogh continued to make important connections with other artists who he befriended and exchanged paintings with, such as Louis Anquetin, Émile Bernard, Armand Guillaumin, Lucien Pissarro and Paul Signac. Having been introduced to Impressionism and Pointillism in Paris, van Gogh began experimenting with related techniques. Van Gogh also utilized complementary colors to allow the formation of vibrant contrasts which enhance each other when juxtaposed.. 
Madonna della Loggia. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Madonna della Loggia is a painting attributed to the Italian Renaissance artist Sandro Botticelli, dating to c. 1467. A tempera on panel work, it is located in the Uffizi, Florence, Italy.. The Madonna della Loggia is a painting attributed to the Italian Renaissance artist Sandro Botticelli, dating to c. 1467. A tempera on panel work, it is located in the Uffizi, Florence, Italy.. 
View of Collioure. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . Les toits de Collioure is a painting by Henri Matisse from 1905. It is an example of the style that Matisse employed during his early period of Fauvism. The painting is in the collection of The Hermitage, St. Petersburg, Russia.. Les toits de Collioure is a painting by Henri Matisse from 1905. It is an example of the style that Matisse employed during his early period of Fauvism. The painting is in the collection of The Hermitage, St. Petersburg, Russia.. 
Men of the Docks. Author Name: George Bellows. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/American_realism. . Men of the Docks is an oil painting on canvas completed by the American artist George Bellows in 1912. Depicting the docks of New York City, this 114.3-by-161.3-centimetre (45.0 by 63.5 in) painting was sold to the National Gallery in London in 2014 for $25.5 million.. Men of the Docks is an oil painting on canvas completed by the American artist George Bellows in 1912. Depicting the docks of New York City, this 114.3-by-161.3-centimetre (45.0 by 63.5 in) painting was sold to the National Gallery in London in 2014 for $25.5 million.. 
The Drover's Wife. Author Name: Sir Russell Drysdale. . . The Drover's Wife is a 1945 painting by Australian artist Russell Drysdale. The painting depicts a flat, barren landscape with a woman in a plain dress in the foreground—a man, a wagon and two horses are in the background. The painting has been described as "an allegory of the white Australian people’s relationship with this ancient land." The title of the painting comes from The Drover's Wife, an 1896 sketch story written by Henry Lawson.The painting is now part of the collection of the National Gallery of Australia in Canberra.. The Drover's Wife is a 1945 painting by Australian artist Russell Drysdale. The painting depicts a flat, barren landscape with a woman in a plain dress in the foreground—a man, a wagon and two horses are in the background. The painting has been described as "an allegory of the white Australian people’s relationship with this ancient land." The title of the painting comes from The Drover's Wife, an 1896 sketch story written by Henry Lawson. The painting is now part of the collection of the National Gallery of Australia in Canberra.. 
Bedroom in Arles. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Bedroom in Arles (French: La Chambre à Arles; Dutch: Slaapkamer te Arles) is the title given to each of three similar paintings by 19th-century Dutch Post-Impressionist painter Vincent van Gogh.Van Gogh's own title for this composition was simply The Bedroom (French: La Chambre à coucher). There are three authentic versions described in his letters, easily discernible from one another by the pictures on the wall to the right.. Bedroom in Arles (French: La Chambre à Arles; Dutch: Slaapkamer te Arles) is the title given to each of three similar paintings by 19th-century Dutch Post-Impressionist painter Vincent van Gogh. Van Gogh's own title for this composition was simply The Bedroom (French: La Chambre à coucher). There are three authentic versions described in his letters, easily discernible from one another by the pictures on the wall to the right. The painting depicts Van Gogh's bedroom at 2, Place Lamartine in Arles, Bouches-du-Rhône, France, known as his Yellow House. The door to the right opened on to the upper floor and the staircase; the door to the left was that of the guest room he held prepared for Gauguin; the window in the front wall looked on to Place Lamartine and its public gardens. This room was not rectangular but trapezoid with an obtuse angle in the left hand corner of the front wall and an acute angle at the right. Van Gogh evidently did not spend much time on this problem, he simply indicated that there was a corner, somehow.. 
Dance in the City. Author Name: Pierre-Auguste Renoir. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Dance in the City is a painting by French artist Pierre-Auguste Renoir. The 1883 work is in the collection of the Musée d'Orsay. The dancers are model and artist Suzanne Valadon and Renoir's friend Paul Auguste Lhote.. Dance in the City is a painting by French artist Pierre-Auguste Renoir. The 1883 work is in the collection of the Musée d'Orsay. The dancers are model and artist Suzanne Valadon and Renoir's friend Paul Auguste Lhote.. 
Little Machine Constructed by Minimax Dadamax in Person. Author Name: Max Ernst. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dada. . Little Machine Constructed by Minimax Dadamax in Person (Von minimax dadamax selbst konstruiertes maschinchen) (1919–20) is a mixed-media work of art by the German dadaist/surrealist Max Ernst.This is probably the most famous example of a series of Ernst’s works that were based on diagrams of scientific instruments. This work began by creating print reproductions of these diagrams. They were then colored and textured with a combination of watercolor, gouache and pencil and ink frottage. Frottage is a technique created by Ernst that involves creating rubbings of different textured surfaces like wood and textiles to give the work a three-dimensional appearance.. Little Machine Constructed by Minimax Dadamax in Person (Von minimax dadamax selbst konstruiertes maschinchen) (1919–20) is a mixed-media work of art by the German dadaist/surrealist Max Ernst. This is probably the most famous example of a series of Ernst’s works that were based on diagrams of scientific instruments. This work began by creating print reproductions of these diagrams. They were then colored and textured with a combination of watercolor, gouache and pencil and ink frottage. Frottage is a technique created by Ernst that involves creating rubbings of different textured surfaces like wood and textiles to give the work a three-dimensional appearance. This work also displays Ernst’s interest in typography. Many of the shapes in the machine can be seen as letters. At the bottom is an inscription that reads "Little machine constructed by Minimax Dadamax in person for fearless pollination of female suckers at the beginning of the change of life and for other such fearless functions.". 
La Durée poignardée. Author Name: René Magritte. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Surrealism. . Time Transfixed (La Durée poignardée) is an oil on canvas painting by the Belgian surrealist René Magritte. It is part of the permanent collection of the Art Institute of Chicago and is usually on display in the museum's new Modern Wing.The painting depicts an LMS[citation needed] 4-6-0 Locomotive jutting out of a fireplace, at full steam, in an empty room. Above the mantelpiece is a tall mirror. Only the clock and one candlestick standing on the mantelpiece are reflected in the mirror, suggesting that there are neither people nor furniture in the room.. Time Transfixed (La Durée poignardée) is an oil on canvas painting by the Belgian surrealist René Magritte. It is part of the permanent collection of the Art Institute of Chicago and is usually on display in the museum's new Modern Wing. The painting was one of many done for surrealist patron and Magritte supporter Edward James. This was the second painting delivered to James for his London ballroom. The first was the portrait of James, Not to be Reproduced. Time Transfixed was purchased by the Art Institute from James in 1970 when he was raising capital to build his surrealist sculpture garden Las Pozas.[citation needed] The painting depicts an LMS[citation needed] 4-6-0 Locomotive jutting out of a fireplace, at full steam, in an empty room. Above the mantelpiece is a tall mirror. Only the clock and one candlestick standing on the mantelpiece are reflected in the mirror, suggesting that there are neither people nor furniture in the room.. 
Pink and Blue. Author Name: Pierre-Auguste Renoir. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Alice and Elisabeth Cahen d’Anvers (most commonly referred to as Pink and Blue) is an oil painting by French impressionist Pierre-Auguste Renoir. Produced in Paris in 1881, the painting depicts the sisters Alice and Elisabeth, daughters of the Jewish banker Louis Raphaël Cahen d'Anvers. It is considered one of the most popular works in the collection of the São Paulo Museum of Art, where it has been conserved since 1952.. Alice and Elisabeth Cahen d’Anvers (most commonly referred to as Pink and Blue) is an oil painting by French impressionist Pierre-Auguste Renoir. Produced in Paris in 1881, the painting depicts the sisters Alice and Elisabeth, daughters of the Jewish banker Louis Raphaël Cahen d'Anvers. It is considered one of the most popular works in the collection of the São Paulo Museum of Art, where it has been conserved since 1952.. 
Altarpiece of the Halberd. Author Name: Lorenzo Lotto. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Altarpiece of the Halberd is a painting from around 1539 by the Italian High Renaissance painter Lorenzo Lotto. It is housed in the Pinacoteca civica Francesco Podesti of Ancona, central Italy.. The Altarpiece of the Halberd is a painting from around 1539 by the Italian High Renaissance painter Lorenzo Lotto. It is housed in the Pinacoteca civica Francesco Podesti of Ancona, central Italy.. 
Sister Tone or Motra Tone. Author Name: Kolë Idromeno. . . The Motra Tone is a half-length portrait of a woman by the Albanian artist Kolë Idromeno. Idromeno painted it in 1883. The picture is part of the collection of National Art Gallery of Albania.. The Motra Tone is a half-length portrait of a woman by the Albanian artist Kolë Idromeno. Idromeno painted it in 1883. The picture is part of the collection of National Art Gallery of Albania.. 
The Beggars. Author Name: Pieter Bruegel the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_and_Flemish_Renaissance_painting. . The Beggars (also The Cripples) is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in 1568. It is currently held and exhibited at the Louvre in Paris.. The Beggars (also The Cripples) is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in 1568. It is currently held and exhibited at the Louvre in Paris.. 
The Charging Chasseur. Author Name: Théodore Géricault. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . The Charging Chasseur, or An Officer of the Imperial Horse Guards Charging is an oil painting on canvas of about 1812 by the French painter Théodore Géricault, portraying a mounted Napoleonic cavalry officer who is ready to attack. The painting represents French romanticism and has a motif similar to Jacques-Louis David's Napoleon Crossing the Alps, but non-classical characteristics of the picture include its dramatic diagonal arrangement and vigorous paint handling. In The Charging Chasseur, the horse appears to be rearing away from an unseen attacker. The painting was Géricault's first exhibited work. Géricault would continue to move away from classicism, as exemplified in his masterpiece The Raft of the Medusa (1818–19).. The Charging Chasseur, or An Officer of the Imperial Horse Guards Charging is an oil painting on canvas of about 1812 by the French painter Théodore Géricault, portraying a mounted Napoleonic cavalry officer who is ready to attack. The painting represents French romanticism and has a motif similar to Jacques-Louis David's Napoleon Crossing the Alps, but non-classical characteristics of the picture include its dramatic diagonal arrangement and vigorous paint handling. In The Charging Chasseur, the horse appears to be rearing away from an unseen attacker. The painting was Géricault's first exhibited work. Géricault would continue to move away from classicism, as exemplified in his masterpiece The Raft of the Medusa (1818–19). The turning figure on a rearing horse is derived from the large early Rubens Saint George (Museo del Prado, 1605–07), though there the view is from the side. 
San Cassiano Altarpiece. Author Name: Antonello da Messina. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The San Cassiano Altarpiece is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Antonello da Messina, dating to 1475-1476. Commissioned for the church of San Cassiano in Venice, it is now housed in the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna. It was one of the most influential paintings in the Veneto area of the time.. The San Cassiano Altarpiece is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Antonello da Messina, dating to 1475-1476. Commissioned for the church of San Cassiano in Venice, it is now housed in the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna. It was one of the most influential paintings in the Veneto area of the time.. 
Landscape, Branchville. Author Name: John Henry Twachtman. . . Landscape, Branchville (also Branchville Lane or Branchville) is an oil on canvas painting by John Henry Twachtman. Painted c. 1888, it is Twachtman's largest known work, and was painted in front of the home of his friend J. Alden Weir.. Landscape, Branchville (also Branchville Lane or Branchville) is an oil on canvas painting by John Henry Twachtman. Painted c. 1888, it is Twachtman's largest known work, and was painted in front of the home of his friend J. Alden Weir.. 
Farms near Auvers. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Farms near Auvers or Thatched Cottages by a Hill is an oil painting by Vincent van Gogh that he painted in July 1890 when he lived in Auvers-sur-Oise, France. The painting is an example of the double-square canvases that he employed in his last landscapes.In 1933 the painting was bequeathed by C. Frank Stoop to the Tate Collection in London, where it currently resides.It was painted the same month Van Gogh died.. Farms near Auvers or Thatched Cottages by a Hill is an oil painting by Vincent van Gogh that he painted in July 1890 when he lived in Auvers-sur-Oise, France. The painting is an example of the double-square canvases that he employed in his last landscapes. Van Gogh spent the last few months of his life in Auvers-sur-Oise, a small town just north of Paris, after he left an asylum at Saint-Rémy in May 1890. Shortly after arriving at Auvers, Van Gogh wrote his sister Wil: "Here there are roofs of mossy thatch which are superb, and of which I’ll certainly do something." The painting appears to be unfinished. It is similar to Thatched Cottages and Houses, a painting thought to have been executed shortly after arrival at Auvers. In 1933 the painting was bequeathed by C. Frank Stoop to the Tate Collection in London, where it currently resides.It was painted the same month Van Gogh died.. 
The Birth of Venus. Author Name: Alexandre Cabanel. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Academic_art. . The Birth of Venus (French: Naissance de Venus) is a painting by the French artist Alexandre Cabanel (1823–1889). It was painted in 1863, and is now in the Musée d'Orsay in Paris. A second and smaller version (85 x 135.9 cm) from ca. 1864 is in Dahesh Museum of Art. A third (106 x 182.6 cm) version dates from 1875; it is in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City.Shown to great success at the Paris Salon of 1863, The Birth of Venus was immediately purchased by Napoleon III for his own personal collection.That same year Cabanel was made a professor of the Ecole des Beaux-Arts.. The Birth of Venus (French: Naissance de Venus) is a painting by the French artist Alexandre Cabanel (1823–1889). It was painted in 1863, and is now in the Musée d'Orsay in Paris. A second and smaller version (85 x 135.9 cm) from ca. 1864 is in Dahesh Museum of Art. A third (106 x 182.6 cm) version dates from 1875; it is in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. Shown to great success at the Paris Salon of 1863, The Birth of Venus was immediately purchased by Napoleon III for his own personal collection.That same year Cabanel was made a professor of the Ecole des Beaux-Arts. Cabanel's erotic imagery, cloaked in historicism, appealed to the propriety of the higher levels of society. Art historian and curator Robert Rosenblum wrote of Cabanel's The Birth of Venus that "This Venus hovers somewhere between an ancient deity and a modern dream"; he described "the ambiguity of her eyes, that seem to be closed but that a close look reveals that she is awake ... A nude who could be asleep or awake is specially formidable for a male viewer". Cabanel was a determined opponent of the Impressionists, especially Édouard Manet,[citation needed] although the refusal of the academic establishment to realize the importance of new ideas and sources of inspiration would eventually prove to be the undoing of the Academy. At the Salon of 1863, The Birth of Venus was one of a multitude of female nudes. Bathed in opalescent colors, Venus shyly looks to the viewer from beneath the crook of her elbow. Two years later, Manet presented his now renowned painting Olympia at the Salon as well. Today both hang in the Musee’d’ Orsay. Unlike Venus’s ethereal-like palette, Manet painted Olympia with pale, placid skin tone, and darkly outlined the figure. Her only seemingly modest gesture is her placement of her hand over her leg, though it is not out of shyness- one must pay before they can see. James Rubin writes of the two works: “The Olympia is often compared to Cabanel’s Birth of Venus, for the latter is a far more sexually appealing work, despite its mythological guise… It is evident Manet’s demythologizing of the female nude was foremost a timely reminder of modern realities. The majority of critics attacked the painting with unmitigated disgust…: “What is this odalisque with the yellow belly, ignoble model dredged up from who knows where?” [And] “The painter’s attitude is of inconceivable vulgarity.” Cabanel depicts personality, but in subtle ways through her relaxed posture and sleepy expression. Jenna-Marie Newberry writes of Venus: “The lightest of color used in The Birth of Venus alludes to the lightness and enlightenment of relaxation, amplifying the reclining nude’s placid demeanor and virginity. The contraposto twist of the figure with the melodramatic swoop of the arm over the face comes directly from his previous paintings … Venus herself takes over the entire front of the picture plane. Her hair has been deepened, adding more to her allure and purity.” It is as if the viewer is catching a glimpse of a goddess simply basking in the nature that enfolds her. She is calm, and asks nothing with her gaze. She is a part of her surroundings and the viewer is privy to behold upon the scene. By adhering to the accepted canon of the day, Cabanel produced a quite seductive painting of a mythological beauty presented in a calculated way that was acceptable for viewers at the time of its creation. Following the Salon it was said: “His dark-eyed heroines, thinly painted, usually in muted colors and immaculately drawn, were popular on both sides of the Atlantic”. Over time, Alexandre developed what would become his signature style. It was his attention to detail that made him popular in the nineteenth century. Cabanel was schooled at the Ecole des Beaux Arts under the painter François-Edouard Picot. Following his tutelage, he entered his first Salon in 1843 and won second place in the Prix de Rome in 1845. “Several major decorative commissions followed including the ceiling in the Cabinet des Dessins in the Louvre, and are typical of Cabanel’s talent for achieving sumptuous effects.” Initially famous for his mythological paintings, Cabanel also made a name for himself in Europe and abroad through his portraits. “Praised as a portraitist of women, Cabanel expressed that he was particularly adept at painting portraits of American women.” A portrait by Cabanel was a desirable commodity. He was a favored portraitist of the Emperor Napoleon himself, and he also refused to travel outside France to accept a commission. This required American elite to travel to Paris to sit for him. “Cabanel had the ability to lend his sitters an air of gentility and urbanity, and to give them an aristocratic allure … "[citation needed] C.H Stranahan summarized the appeal of Cabanel’s style shortly before his death saying: “…He is especially the master of every grace attractive to woman; great judiciousness in rendering what his subtle reading of the human face gives him; great power and knowledge of hands, which leads to his throwing a veil of mystery over the expression, even leaving a softening vagueness…"   Upon his death in 1889, “Journals and dailies paid indulgent tribute to Cabanel in obituaries.” In one, he was called “the most distinguished painter of the grand style,” and “all commented on Cabanel’s liberal teaching".. 
A Huguenot on St. Bartholomew's Day. Author Name: Sir John Everett Millais, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pre-Raphaelite_Brotherhood. . A Huguenot, on St. Bartholomew's Day, Refusing to Shield Himself from Danger by Wearing the Roman Catholic Badge (1852) is a painting by John Everett Millais. The long title is usually abbreviated to A Huguenot or A Huguenot on St Bartholomew's Day.Some of the flowers depicted in the scene may have been chosen because of the contemporary interest in the so-called language of flowers. The blue Canterbury Bells at the left, for example, can stand for faith and constancy.. A Huguenot, on St. Bartholomew's Day, Refusing to Shield Himself from Danger by Wearing the Roman Catholic Badge (1852) is a painting by John Everett Millais. The long title is usually abbreviated to A Huguenot or A Huguenot on St Bartholomew's Day. It depicts a pair of young lovers in an embrace. The familiar subject is given a dramatic twist because the "embrace" is in fact an attempt by the girl to get her beloved to wear a white armband, declaring his allegiance to Roman Catholicism. The young man gently pulls the armband off with the same hand with which he embraces the girl. The incident refers to the St. Bartholomew's Day massacre in 1572 when French Protestants (Huguenots) were massacred in Paris, leading to other massacres elsewhere in France. A small number of Protestants escaped from the city by wearing white armbands. Millais had initially planned simply to depict lovers, but had been persuaded by his Pre-Raphaelite colleague William Holman Hunt that the subject was too trite. After seeing Giacomo Meyerbeer's opera Les Huguenots, which tells the story of the massacre, Millais adapted the painting to refer to the event. In the opera the character Valentine also attempts unsuccessfully to get her lover Raoul to wear the armband. The choice of a pro-Protestant subject was also significant because the Pre-Raphaelites had previously been attacked for their alleged sympathies to the Oxford Movement and to Catholicism. Some of the flowers depicted in the scene may have been chosen because of the contemporary interest in the so-called language of flowers. The blue Canterbury Bells at the left, for example, can stand for faith and constancy. The painting was exhibited with Ophelia in 1852, and helped to change attitudes towards the Pre-Raphaelites. Tom Taylor wrote an extremely positive review in Punch. The painting was reproduced as an engraving, which became Millais's first major popular success. As a result Millais went on to produce a number of other paintings on similar subjects.. 
The Man with the Golden Helmet. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Man with the Golden Helmet (c. 1650) is an oil on canvas painting formerly attributed to the Dutch painter Rembrandt and today considered to be a work by someone in his circle.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Gemäldegalerie, Berlin.. The Man with the Golden Helmet (c. 1650) is an oil on canvas painting formerly attributed to the Dutch painter Rembrandt and today considered to be a work by someone in his circle.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Gemäldegalerie, Berlin. This painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1915, who wrote; "261. AN ELDERLY MAN WITH A GILT HELMET. B.-HdG. 356. He is turned a little to the right ; his eyes are cast down. He wears a dark coat with purplish-red sleeves. On his head is a richly wrought gilt helmet with ear-pieces and a plume of short white and red feathers. Dark background. Strong light falls from the left at top on tin helmet and, touching the face as it passes, on the breast. Life size, half-length. The sitter is identified as Rembrandt's brother Adriaen. But as Adriaen was a poor shoemaker in Leyden while Rembrandt lived in Amsterdam, and as moreover Adriaen van Rijn died in 1652 while this model occurs in pictures of the year 1654, the identification is not very probable. Painted about 1650. See the notes to 384 and 442 ; cf. 420, 423. Canvas, 26 1/2 inches by 20 1/2 inches. Exhibited at Amsterdam, 1898, No. 75. Mentioned by Bode, Oud Holland, 1891, p. 4 ; by Dr. Laban, Zeitschrift für bildende Kunst, 1898, pp. 73, etc. Acquired from the De Bockart collection, Fribourg, Switzerland, by the London dealers P. and D. Colnaghi ; bought from them in 1897 by the Kaiser Friedrich Museumverein, Berlin, and since exhibited-- In the Kaiser Friedrich Museum, Berlin, 1911 catalogue, No. 8llA.". 
Lobster Trap and Fish Tail. Author Name: Alexander "Sandy" Calder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstraction_(art). . Lobster Trap and Fish Tail, a mobile by American artist Alexander Calder, is located at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City, New York, United States. It is one of Calder's earliest hanging mobiles and "the first to reveal the basic characteristics of the genre that launched his enormous international reputation and popularity.". Lobster Trap and Fish Tail, a mobile by American artist Alexander Calder, is located at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City, New York, United States. It is one of Calder's earliest hanging mobiles and "the first to reveal the basic characteristics of the genre that launched his enormous international reputation and popularity.". 
Bagnacavallo Madonna. Author Name: Albrecht Dürer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Bagnacavallo Madonna is an oil painting by Albrecht Dürer, dating to before 1505. It is now in the Magnani-Rocca Foundation of Traversetolo, in the province of Parma, Italy.. The Bagnacavallo Madonna is an oil painting by Albrecht Dürer, dating to before 1505. It is now in the Magnani-Rocca Foundation of Traversetolo, in the province of Parma, Italy.. 
St. John the Baptist in the Wilderness. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . St. John the Baptist in the Wilderness is an oil painting by Hieronymus Bosch. The painting was acquired by the Spanish collector Lázaro Galdiano in 1913. It is on display in the Museo Lázaro Galdiano, in Madrid, Spain.. St. John the Baptist in the Wilderness is an oil painting by Hieronymus Bosch. The painting was acquired by the Spanish collector Lázaro Galdiano in 1913. It is on display in the Museo Lázaro Galdiano, in Madrid, Spain. The painting forms a pair with St. John the Evangelist on Patmos which is in Berlin. In the 1940s it was noticed that the two paintings could have been designed as the wings of an altarpiece. It has since been suggested that the altarpiece in question was an artwork which is known to have been made for St. John's Cathedral, 's-Hertogenbosch. The painting is difficult to date. If the 's-Hertogenbosch hypothesis is correct, the date would be around 1489, although later dates have been proposed based on other criteria. John the Baptist is often depicted with a lamb. The animal is said to symbolise the sacrifice of the saint as an innocent victim of the wickedness of mankind, or it could be that the saint is pointing towards Jesus Christ, whose symbol is the pascal lamb (John 1:29-36). Bosch's painting differs from other paintings of John the Baptist in the fantastical objects he carefully depicts.. 
Crucifixion. Author Name: Lucas Cranach the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/German_Renaissance. . Crucifixion is an oil painting by German artist Lucas Cranach the Elder, created in 1532. It is currently in the permanent exhibition at the Indianapolis Museum of Art.. Crucifixion is an oil painting by German artist Lucas Cranach the Elder, created in 1532. It is currently in the permanent exhibition at the Indianapolis Museum of Art.. 
Equestrian Portrait of Count Duke of Olivares. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Equestrian Portrait of Count-Duke of Olivares is a painting by Spanish artist Diego Velázquez, finished in 1634. It is housed at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, in New York City.The subject of the picture is Gaspar de Guzmán, Count-Duke of Olivares, Prime Minister of Spain during the reign of Philip IV. He is portrayed riding a horse, an honour generally reserved for monarchs at the time. He wears a plumed headgear and a gilt cuirass, and holds a command baton. The composition refers to Olivares' military leadership in the service of King Philip.. The Equestrian Portrait of Count-Duke of Olivares is a painting by Spanish artist Diego Velázquez, finished in 1634. It is housed at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, in New York City. The subject of the picture is Gaspar de Guzmán, Count-Duke of Olivares, Prime Minister of Spain during the reign of Philip IV. He is portrayed riding a horse, an honour generally reserved for monarchs at the time. He wears a plumed headgear and a gilt cuirass, and holds a command baton. The composition refers to Olivares' military leadership in the service of King Philip.. 
Madonna del Granduca. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Madonna del Granduca is a Madonna painting by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael. It was probably painted in 1505, shortly after Raphael had arrived in Florence. The influence of Leonardo da Vinci, whose works he got to know there, can be seen in the use of sfumato. The painting belonged to Ferdinand III, Grand Duke of Tuscany, from whom it got its name.. The Madonna del Granduca is a Madonna painting by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael. It was probably painted in 1505, shortly after Raphael had arrived in Florence. The influence of Leonardo da Vinci, whose works he got to know there, can be seen in the use of sfumato. The painting belonged to Ferdinand III, Grand Duke of Tuscany, from whom it got its name.. 
House in Provence. Author Name: Paul Cézanne. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . House in Provence is an oil painting by French artist Paul Cézanne. Created in 1885, it is currently part of the permanent collection in the Indianapolis Museum of Art.. House in Provence is an oil painting by French artist Paul Cézanne. Created in 1885, it is currently part of the permanent collection in the Indianapolis Museum of Art.. 
Stufetta del cardinal Bibbiena. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Stufetta del cardinal Bibbiena (lit. The Small Heated Room of Cardinal Bibbiena) is a small room in the Vatican, adorned with erotic frescoes painted by Raphael in 1516 and commissioned by Cardinal Bibbiena (1470–1520). It is found in the pope's chambers in what originally served as a washing room for the Bibbiena.. The Stufetta del cardinal Bibbiena (lit. The Small Heated Room of Cardinal Bibbiena) is a small room in the Vatican, adorned with erotic frescoes painted by Raphael in 1516 and commissioned by Cardinal Bibbiena (1470–1520). It is found in the pope's chambers in what originally served as a washing room for the Bibbiena.. 
The Battle of the Kearsarge and the Alabama. Author Name: Édouard Manet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Battle of the Kearsarge and the Alabama is a 1864 painting by Édouard Manet. The painting commemorates the Battle of Cherbourg of 1864, a naval engagement between the Union cruiser USS Kearsarge and the rebel privateer CSS Alabama. Not having witnessed the battle himself, Manet relied on press descriptions of the fight to document his work.In 1872, Barbey d'Aurevilly stated that the painting was a "magnificiant marine painting" and that "the sea (...) is more frightening than the battle". It was hung at Alfred Cadart's and was praised by the critic Philippe Burty. The Battle of the Kearsarge and the Alabama is a 1864 painting by Édouard Manet. The painting commemorates the Battle of Cherbourg of 1864, a naval engagement between the Union cruiser USS Kearsarge and the rebel privateer CSS Alabama. Not having witnessed the battle himself, Manet relied on press descriptions of the fight to document his work. In 1872, Barbey d'Aurevilly stated that the painting was a "magnificiant marine painting" and that "the sea (...) is more frightening than the battle". It was hung at Alfred Cadart's and was praised by the critic Philippe Burty The painting is on display in the Philadelphia Museum of Art.. 
Marilyn Diptych. Author Name: Andy Warhol. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . The Marilyn Diptych (1962) is a silkscreen painting by American pop artist Andy Warhol. The piece is one of the artist's most famous works, and it has been praised by several cultural critics such as Camille Paglia and others. The original piece is currently owned by the Tate. Noticed qualities in the painting is how the top right panel has faded , this was done to show Marylin's more mortal and realistic features .. The Marilyn Diptych (1962) is a silkscreen painting by American pop artist Andy Warhol. The piece is one of the artist's most famous works, and it has been praised by several cultural critics such as Camille Paglia and others. The original piece is currently owned by the Tate. Noticed qualities in the painting is how the top right panel has faded , this was done to show Marylin's more mortal and realistic features .. 
Wedding dress of Sarah Ferguson. Author Name: Cierach, Lindka. . . The wedding dress of Sarah Ferguson was worn by Sarah Ferguson at her wedding to Prince Andrew, Duke of York on 23 July 1986 at Westminster Abbey. Designed by Lindka Cierach, the dress was made from ivory duchesse satin and featured heavy beading. The beadwork incorporated various symbols including hearts representing romance, anchors and waves representing Prince Andrew's sailing background and bumblebees and thistles, which were taken from Sarah Ferguson's family crest. Copies of the dress, including the motifs specific to the royal family, went on sale in stores just hours after the end of the wedding.Influenced by the wedding dress of Lady Diana Spencer, a notable feature of Sarah Ferguson's 17 foot long train was the intertwined initials A and S sewn in silver beads. The head-dress an. The wedding dress of Sarah Ferguson was worn by Sarah Ferguson at her wedding to Prince Andrew, Duke of York on 23 July 1986 at Westminster Abbey. Designed by Lindka Cierach, the dress was made from ivory duchesse satin and featured heavy beading. The beadwork incorporated various symbols including hearts representing romance, anchors and waves representing Prince Andrew's sailing background and bumblebees and thistles, which were taken from Sarah Ferguson's family crest. Copies of the dress, including the motifs specific to the royal family, went on sale in stores just hours after the end of the wedding.Influenced by the wedding dress of Lady Diana Spencer, a notable feature of Sarah Ferguson's 17 foot long train was the intertwined initials A and S sewn in silver beads. The head-dress and bouquet, fabric rosettes or artificial silk flowers were used to adorn the gown itself. Ferguson was pleased with the dress, describing it in her 1997 memoir, My Story, as "an exquisite creation I'd lost twenty-six pounds to fit into. Lindka was a genius; I knew she could make the most flattering gown ever, and she had. It was amazingly boned, like a corset."Hair stylist Denise McAdam and make-up artist Teresa Fairminer attended to Sarah Ferguson. Florist Jane Packer designed the bouquet. The ivory silk wedding dress became the season's most sought-after style.. 
Anne Borrow. Author Name: Joseph Wright. . . Thomas Borrow and Ann Borrow are two paintings by Joseph Wright of Derby.. Thomas Borrow and Ann Borrow are two paintings by Joseph Wright of Derby.. 
The First Days of Spring. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The First Days of Spring (1929) is a painting by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dalí. This is probably the most famous example of Dalí's early surrealist work.The setting for this image is an expansive, smooth gray plane. It is elevated on the right and steps down to a lower level at the left. Clustered in the middle of this space is a variety of strange and colorful surrealist images. In the distance is the small shadowy figures of a man holding the hand of a small boy. Toward the left is a figure seated in a chair with his back turned to the entire scene.. The First Days of Spring (1929) is a painting by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dalí. This is probably the most famous example of Dalí's early surrealist work. The setting for this image is an expansive, smooth gray plane. It is elevated on the right and steps down to a lower level at the left. Clustered in the middle of this space is a variety of strange and colorful surrealist images. In the distance is the small shadowy figures of a man holding the hand of a small boy. Toward the left is a figure seated in a chair with his back turned to the entire scene. This work was created during a time of extreme personal stress for Dalí. His father was becoming increasingly disappointed with his son's choice of profession and unorthodox behavior. The figures of the man and boy appear several times in Dalí's future works. They represent Dalí's wish to heal his relationship with his father. The seated figure on the left has also been speculated to represent the artist's father.. 
Mystic Marriage of St. Francis. Author Name: Sassetta. . . The Mystic Marriage of St. Francis is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Sassetta, currently housed in the Musée Condé of Chantilly, France.. The Mystic Marriage of St. Francis is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Sassetta, currently housed in the Musée Condé of Chantilly, France.. 
The Foundation of Perth 1829. Author Name: George Pitt Morison. . . The Foundation of Perth 1829 is a 1929 oil-on-canvas painting by George Pitt Morison. It depicts the ceremony by which the town of Perth, Western Australia was founded on 12 August 1829. Morison painted the work as part of Western Australia's centenary celebrations, and presented it to the Art Gallery of Western Australia in February 1929.. The Foundation of Perth 1829 is a 1929 oil-on-canvas painting by George Pitt Morison. It depicts the ceremony by which the town of Perth, Western Australia was founded on 12 August 1829. Morison painted the work as part of Western Australia's centenary celebrations, and presented it to the Art Gallery of Western Australia in February 1929. The painting took George Pitt Morison almost eighteen months to research and paint. He studied a number of contemporary accounts of the ceremony, and had access to photographs of the people present. It is generally regarded as an historically accurate reconstruction. The official ceremony depicted in the image was held on a small hill overlooking the Swan River, in the immediate vicinity of the present Perth Town Hall. As no stones were readily available, it was decided to mark the occasion by felling a tree. The only woman to accompany the party so far up the river from Fremantle, Mrs Helena Dance, was invited to strike the first blow. The Foundation of Perth depicts Mrs Dance holding the axe and about to make the first cut. Immediately to the right of her in the painting is an axe-man, waiting to complete the task. Other people depicted in the work include Lieutenant Governor James Stirling, Captain Charles Fremantle, Commander Mark John Currie, Major Frederick Irwin, Captain William Dance, the Colonial Secretary Peter Broun, Dr William Milligan and the Surveyor-General Lieutenant John Septimus Roe. The Foundation of Perth 1829 has become an "enduring and influential image" (Gooding 1989) in the history of Western Australia. It was used extensively in both the 1929 centenary celebrations, and the WAY 1979 sesquicentennial celebrations. The painting is often not even acknowledged as a historical reconstruction, and many people have come to accept it as an authentic record of the ceremony,.. 
The Blood Compact. Author Name: Juan Luna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Blood Compact (Spanish: El Pacto de Sangre) is an award-winning 1886 “historic and historical' painting by Filipino painter Juan Luna.. The Blood Compact (Spanish: El Pacto de Sangre) is an award-winning 1886 “historic and historical' painting by Filipino painter Juan Luna.. 
Head of a Woman. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . Head of a Woman is a fragment of a Hieronymus Bosch painting. It is currently in the Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen in Rotterdam, Netherlands. The fragment is only 13 cm tall and 5 cm wide.. Head of a Woman is a fragment of a Hieronymus Bosch painting. It is currently in the Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen in Rotterdam, Netherlands. The fragment is only 13 cm tall and 5 cm wide.. 
Belshazzar's Feast. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Belshazzar's Feast is a painting by Rembrandt housed in the National Gallery, London. The painting is an attempt to establish Rembrandt as a painter of large, baroque history paintings.. Belshazzar's Feast is a painting by Rembrandt housed in the National Gallery, London. The painting is an attempt to establish Rembrandt as a painter of large, baroque history paintings.. 
Right and Left. Author Name: Winslow Homer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Right and Left is a 1909 oil on canvas painting by the American artist Winslow Homer. It depicts a pair of common goldeneye ducks at the moment they are hit by a hunter's shotgun blast as they attempt to take flight. Completed less than two years before his death, it was Homer's last great painting, and has been the subject of a variety of interpretations regarding its origin, composition and meaning. As with his other late masterworks, it represents a return to the sporting and hunting subjects of Homer's earlier years, and was to be his final engagement with the theme. Its design recalls that of Japanese art, and the composition resembles that of a colored engraving by John James Audubon.. Right and Left is a 1909 oil on canvas painting by the American artist Winslow Homer. It depicts a pair of common goldeneye ducks at the moment they are hit by a hunter's shotgun blast as they attempt to take flight. Completed less than two years before his death, it was Homer's last great painting, and has been the subject of a variety of interpretations regarding its origin, composition and meaning. As with his other late masterworks, it represents a return to the sporting and hunting subjects of Homer's earlier years, and was to be his final engagement with the theme. Its design recalls that of Japanese art, and the composition resembles that of a colored engraving by John James Audubon.. 
The Last Supper. Author Name: Domenico Ghirlandaio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Last Supper (1480) is a fresco depicting the Last Supper of Jesus by the Italian Renaissance artist Domenico Ghirlandaio; it is located in the refectory of the Convent of the Ognissanti on Borgo Ognissanti #42 in central Florence, region of Tuscany, Italy. It is one of three Last Supper frescoes painted by Ghirlandaio in Florence, the others being for the Badia di Passignano (1476) and for the Cenacolo di San Marco (1486).. The Last Supper (1480) is a fresco depicting the Last Supper of Jesus by the Italian Renaissance artist Domenico Ghirlandaio; it is located in the refectory of the Convent of the Ognissanti on Borgo Ognissanti #42 in central Florence, region of Tuscany, Italy. It is one of three Last Supper frescoes painted by Ghirlandaio in Florence, the others being for the Badia di Passignano (1476) and for the Cenacolo di San Marco (1486).. 
Isabella and the Pot of Basil. Author Name: William Holman Hunt. . . Isabella and the Pot of Basil is a painting completed in 1868 by William Holman Hunt depicting a scene from John Keats's poem Isabella, or the Pot of Basil. It depicts the heroine Isabella caressing the basil pot in which she had buried the severed head of her murdered lover Lorenzo.. Isabella and the Pot of Basil is a painting completed in 1868 by William Holman Hunt depicting a scene from John Keats's poem Isabella, or the Pot of Basil. It depicts the heroine Isabella caressing the basil pot in which she had buried the severed head of her murdered lover Lorenzo. Hunt had drawn an illustration to the poem in 1848, shortly after the foundation of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, but he had not developed it into a completed painting. The drawing portrayed a very different scene, depicting Lorenzo as a clerk at work while Isabella's brothers study their accounts and order around underlings. Hunt returned to the poem in 1866, shortly after his marriage, when he began to paint several erotically charged subjects. His sensuous painting Il Dolce Far Niente had sold quickly, and he conceived the idea for a new work depicting Isabella. Having travelled with his pregnant wife Fanny to Italy, Hunt began work on the painting in Florence. However, after giving birth, Fanny died from fever in December 1866. Hunt turned the painting into a memorial to his wife, using her features for Isabella. He worked on it steadily in the months after her death, returning to England in 1867, and finally completing it in January 1868. The painting was purchased and exhibited by the dealer Ernest Gambart. The painting portrays Isabella, unable to sleep, dressed in a semi-transparent nightgown, having just left her bed, which is visible with the cover turned over in the background. She drapes herself over an altar she has created to Lorenzo from an elaborately inlaid prie-dieu over which a richly embroidered cloth has been placed. On the cloth is the majolica pot, decorated with skulls, in which Lorenzo's head is interred. Her abundant hair flows over the pot and around the flourishing plant, reflecting Keats's words that Isabella "hung over her sweet Basil evermore,/And moistened it with tears unto the core." Behind her, next to the doorway, are a pair of pattens, next to the edge of a cassone. The emphasis on sensuality, rich colours and elaborate decorative objects reflects the growing Aesthetic movement and similar features in the work of Hunt's Pre-Raphaelite associates John Everett Millais and Dante Gabriel Rossetti, such as Millais's Pot Pourri and Rossetti's Venus Verticordia. The pose of the figure also resembles Thomas Woolner's sculpture Civilization, which was partly modelled by Fanny's sister Alice. Hunt's work influenced several later artists, who adopted the same subject. Most notable are the paintings by John White Alexander (1897) and John William Waterhouse (1907). Alexander and Waterhouse reproduce Hunt's title and develop variations on his composition. Alexander's composition adapts the subject to a Whistlerian style. Waterhouse reverses the composition, and places the scene in a garden, but retains the motif of the water-jug and the decorative skull.. 
The Olive Trees. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Vincent van Gogh painted at least 18 paintings of olive trees, mostly in Saint-Rémy-de-Provence in 1889. At his own request, he lived at an asylum there from May 1889 through May 1890 painting the gardens of the asylum and, when he had permission to venture outside its walls, nearby olive trees, cypresses and wheat fields.One painting, Olive Trees in a Mountainous Landscape, was a complement to The Starry Night.. Vincent van Gogh painted at least 18 paintings of olive trees, mostly in Saint-Rémy-de-Provence in 1889. At his own request, he lived at an asylum there from May 1889 through May 1890 painting the gardens of the asylum and, when he had permission to venture outside its walls, nearby olive trees, cypresses and wheat fields.One painting, Olive Trees in a Mountainous Landscape, was a complement to The Starry Night. The olive tree paintings had special significance for Van Gogh. A group in May 1889 represented life, the divine and the cycle of life while those from November 1889 arose out of Van Gogh's attempt to symbolize his feelings about Christ in Gethsemane. His paintings of olive pickers demonstrate the relationship between man and nature by depicting one of the cycles of life, harvesting or death. It is also an example of how individuals, through interaction with nature, can connect with the divine. Van Gogh found respite and relief in interaction with nature. When the series of olive tree paintings was made in 1889 Van Gogh was subject to illness and emotional turmoil, yet the paintings are among his finest works.. 
The Enraged Musician. Author Name: William  Hogarth. . . The Enraged Musician is a 1741 etching and engraving by English artist William Hogarth which depicts a comic scene of a violinist driven to distraction by the cacophony outside his window. It was issued as companion piece to the third state of his print of The Distrest Poet.. The Enraged Musician is a 1741 etching and engraving by English artist William Hogarth which depicts a comic scene of a violinist driven to distraction by the cacophony outside his window. It was issued as companion piece to the third state of his print of The Distrest Poet.. 
Napoleon as Mars the Peacemaker. Author Name: Antonio Canova. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . Napoleon as Mars the Peacemaker is a colossal heroic nude statue by the Italian artist Antonio Canova, of Napoleon I of France in the guise of the Roman god Mars. He holds a gilded Nike or Victory standing on an orb in his right hand and a staff in his left. It was produced between 1802 and 1806 and stands 3.45 metres to the raised left hand. Once on display in the Louvre in Paris, it was purchased from Louis XVIII in 1816 by the British government, which granted it to the Duke of Wellington. It is now on display in Robert Adam's stairwell at the Duke's London residence, Apsley House.. Napoleon as Mars the Peacemaker is a colossal heroic nude statue by the Italian artist Antonio Canova, of Napoleon I of France in the guise of the Roman god Mars. He holds a gilded Nike or Victory standing on an orb in his right hand and a staff in his left. It was produced between 1802 and 1806 and stands 3.45 metres to the raised left hand. Once on display in the Louvre in Paris, it was purchased from Louis XVIII in 1816 by the British government, which granted it to the Duke of Wellington. It is now on display in Robert Adam's stairwell at the Duke's London residence, Apsley House.. 
Reading The Letter. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . La Lecture de la Lettre (Reading the Letter) is a painting by Pablo Picasso, painted c. 1921, during the artist's transition from Cubism to Classicism, very close to the time of the birth of his son, Paulo. The oil on canvas painting depicts two well-dressed boys reading a letter. The boys have downcast expressions as they read. One boy has an oversized hand on the other's shoulder.. La Lecture de la Lettre (Reading the Letter) is a painting by Pablo Picasso, painted c. 1921, during the artist's transition from Cubism to Classicism, very close to the time of the birth of his son, Paulo. The oil on canvas painting depicts two well-dressed boys reading a letter. The boys have downcast expressions as they read. One boy has an oversized hand on the other's shoulder.. 
Charles II. Author Name: Caius Gabriel Cibber. . . The statue of Charles II is an outdoor sculpture of Charles II of England by the Danish sculptor Caius Gabriel Cibber, located near the centre of Soho Square in London.. The statue of Charles II is an outdoor sculpture of Charles II of England by the Danish sculptor Caius Gabriel Cibber, located near the centre of Soho Square in London.. 
City Yard. Author Name: Klein, Sheila. . . City Yard is a public art work by artist Sheila Klein, located at the Frontier Airlines Center in downtown Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The artwork consists of landscape elements, limestone architectural ornament, and salvaged public works objects such as fire hydrants and the classic blue police call box.. City Yard is a public art work by artist Sheila Klein, located at the Frontier Airlines Center in downtown Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The artwork consists of landscape elements, limestone architectural ornament, and salvaged public works objects such as fire hydrants and the classic blue police call box.. 
The Hay Wain. Author Name: John Constable. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . The Hay Wain is a painting by John Constable, finished in 1821, which depicts a rural scene on the River Stour between the English counties of Suffolk and Essex. It hangs in the National Gallery in London and is regarded as "Constable's most famous image" and one of the greatest and most popular English paintings.. The Hay Wain is a painting by John Constable, finished in 1821, which depicts a rural scene on the River Stour between the English counties of Suffolk and Essex. It hangs in the National Gallery in London and is regarded as "Constable's most famous image" and one of the greatest and most popular English paintings. Painted in oils on canvas, the work depicts as its central feature three horses pulling a hay wain or large farm cart across the river. Willy Lott's Cottage, also the subject of an eponymous painting by Constable, is visible on the far left. The scene takes place near Flatford Mill in Suffolk, though since the Stour forms the border of two counties, the left bank is in Suffolk and the landscape on the right bank is in Essex. The Hay Wain is one of a series of paintings by Constable called the "six-footers", large-scale canvasses which he painted for the annual summer exhibitions at the Royal Academy. As with all of the paintings in this series Constable produced a full-scale oil sketch for the work; this is now in the Victoria and Albert Museum in London. Constable originally exhibited the finished work with the title Landscape: Noon, suggesting that he envisaged it as belonging to the classical landscape tradition of representing the cycles of nature.. 
A Wind-Beaten Tree. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . A Wind-Beaten Tree is an oil painting created in 1883 by Vincent van Gogh.. A Wind-Beaten Tree is an oil painting created in 1883 by Vincent van Gogh.. 
Abaporu. Author Name: Tarsila do Amaral. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Manifesto_Antropófago. . Abaporu (from Tupi language "abapor'u", abá (man) + poro (people) + 'u (to eat), "the man that eats people") is an oil painting on canvas by the Brazilian painter Tarsila do Amaral, executed in 1928 as a birthday present to the writer Oswald de Andrade, her husband at the time.The composition: one man, the sun and a cactus – inspired Oswald de Andrade to write the Anthropophagite Manifesto and consequently create Anthropophagic Movement, intended to "swallow" European culture and turn it into something culturally very Brazilian.. Abaporu (from Tupi language "abapor'u", abá (man) + poro (people) + 'u (to eat), "the man that eats people") is an oil painting on canvas by the Brazilian painter Tarsila do Amaral, executed in 1928 as a birthday present to the writer Oswald de Andrade, her husband at the time. It is considered the most valuable painting by a Brazilian artist, having reached the value of $1.4 million, paid by the Argentine collector Eduardo Costantini in an auction in 1995. It is currently displayed at the Latin American Art Museum of Buenos Aires (Spanish: Museo de Arte Latinoamericano de Buenos Aires, MALBA) in Buenos Aires, Argentina. The composition: one man, the sun and a cactus – inspired Oswald de Andrade to write the Anthropophagite Manifesto and consequently create Anthropophagic Movement, intended to "swallow" European culture and turn it into something culturally very Brazilian.. 
Prince Philip Prospero,. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Portrait of Prince Philip Prospero is a 1659 portrait of Philip Prospero, Prince of Asturias by Diego Velázquez. It is now in the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna.. The Portrait of Prince Philip Prospero is a 1659 portrait of Philip Prospero, Prince of Asturias by Diego Velázquez. It is now in the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna.. 
Fur Traders Descending the Missouri. Author Name: George Caleb Bingham. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Luminism_(American_art_style). . Fur Traders Descending the Missouri is an 1845 painting by George Caleb Bingham. Bingham brought the painting to St. Louis, Missouri on June 4, 1845, along with several other pieces of artwork.One of Bingham's most famous paintings, this work is owned by the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. Painted around 1845 in the style called luminism by some historians of American art, it was originally entitled, French-Trader, Half-breed Son. The American Art Union thought the title potentially controversial and renamed it when it was first exhibited. It reflected the reality of fur traders' common marriages with Native American women; in Canada the Métis ethnic group formed as a result. The painting is haunting for its evocation of an era in American history-—note, in particular, the liberty . Fur Traders Descending the Missouri is an 1845 painting by George Caleb Bingham. Bingham brought the painting to St. Louis, Missouri on June 4, 1845, along with several other pieces of artwork. One of Bingham's most famous paintings, this work is owned by the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. Painted around 1845 in the style called luminism by some historians of American art, it was originally entitled, French-Trader, Half-breed Son. The American Art Union thought the title potentially controversial and renamed it when it was first exhibited. It reflected the reality of fur traders' common marriages with Native American women; in Canada the Métis ethnic group formed as a result. The painting is haunting for its evocation of an era in American history-—note, in particular, the liberty cap worn by the older man. The animal in the boat is widely accepted as a bear cub and not a cat.. 
Legacy of Leadership. Author Name: Alan Collins. . . Legacy of Leadership is an outdoor 1998 sculpture by Alan Collins, installed on the Andrews University campus in Berrien Springs, Michigan, United States. The bronze sculptural group depicts J. N. Andrews and his children Charles and Mary departing from Boston Harbor in 1874 for missionary work overseas. It was unveiled in front of Pioneer Memorial Church in 1998.. Legacy of Leadership is an outdoor 1998 sculpture by Alan Collins, installed on the Andrews University campus in Berrien Springs, Michigan, United States. The bronze sculptural group depicts J. N. Andrews and his children Charles and Mary departing from Boston Harbor in 1874 for missionary work overseas. It was unveiled in front of Pioneer Memorial Church in 1998.. 
The Vale of Rest. Author Name: Sir John Everett Millais, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pre-Raphaelite_Brotherhood. . The Vale of Rest (1858–1859) is a painting by John Everett Millais.The painting is of a graveyard, as night is coming on. Beyond the graveyard wall there is a low chapel with a bell. In the foreground of the scene, there are two nuns – the heads of the two nuns are level and symmetrical. They are Roman Catholic nuns, one of the nuns holds a rosary, and one of the nuns is digging a grave. Her forearm and body strain under the weight of a shovelful of earth. The other, overseeing the work, turns with a look of apprehension and anguish.. The Vale of Rest (1858–1859) is a painting by John Everett Millais. The painting is of a graveyard, as night is coming on. Beyond the graveyard wall there is a low chapel with a bell. In the foreground of the scene, there are two nuns – the heads of the two nuns are level and symmetrical. They are Roman Catholic nuns, one of the nuns holds a rosary, and one of the nuns is digging a grave. Her forearm and body strain under the weight of a shovelful of earth. The other, overseeing the work, turns with a look of apprehension and anguish. Art critic Tom Lubbock said of the painting:The painting is one of those satirised in Florence Claxton's watercolour The Choice of Paris – an idyll (1860). Claxton criticized "the perceived ugliness of early pre-Raphaelite paintings by exaggerating details from many of their works, including The Vale of Rest, Claudio and Isabella, and, lying in the grass, Alice Gray from Spring". 
Ten Dollar Bill. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Ten Dollar Bill (also referred to as The Dollar Bill) is a 1956 proto-pop art lithographic drawing by Roy Lichtenstein. Considered to be a combination of Americana art and cubism, the work is referred to as the beginning to Lichtenstein's work on pop art. Twenty-five editions of the lithograph were made by Lichtenstein, which were exhibited at several galleries. The piece is based on the design for the ten-dollar bill and has influenced several of Lichtenstein's later works. The picture has received generally favorable reception from critics, and is considered to be one of the best artistic portrayals of currency.. Ten Dollar Bill (also referred to as The Dollar Bill) is a 1956 proto-pop art lithographic drawing by Roy Lichtenstein. Considered to be a combination of Americana art and cubism, the work is referred to as the beginning to Lichtenstein's work on pop art. Twenty-five editions of the lithograph were made by Lichtenstein, which were exhibited at several galleries. The piece is based on the design for the ten-dollar bill and has influenced several of Lichtenstein's later works. The picture has received generally favorable reception from critics, and is considered to be one of the best artistic portrayals of currency.. 
The Alchemist Discovering Phosphorus. Author Name: Joseph Wright. . . The Alchemist Discovering Phosphorus is a painting by Joseph Wright of Derby originally completed in 1771 then reworked in 1795. The full title of the painting is “The Alchymist, in Search of the Philosopher's Stone, Discovers Phosphorus, and prays for the successful Conclusion of his operation, as was the custom of the Ancient Chymical Astrologers”. It has been suggested that "The Alchymist" refers to the discovery of phosphorus by the Hamburg alchemist Hennig Brandt in 1669. This story was often printed in popular chemical books in Wright's lifetime, and was widely known.. The Alchemist Discovering Phosphorus is a painting by Joseph Wright of Derby originally completed in 1771 then reworked in 1795. The full title of the painting is “The Alchymist, in Search of the Philosopher's Stone, Discovers Phosphorus, and prays for the successful Conclusion of his operation, as was the custom of the Ancient Chymical Astrologers”. It has been suggested that "The Alchymist" refers to the discovery of phosphorus by the Hamburg alchemist Hennig Brandt in 1669. This story was often printed in popular chemical books in Wright's lifetime, and was widely known.. 
Quarantania I. Author Name: Louise Bourgeois. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Feminist_art. . Quarantania I is an outdoor sculpture by Louise Bourgeois, installed at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston's Lillie and Hugh Roy Cullen Sculpture Garden in the U.S. state of Texas. The bronze sculpture was designed during 1947–1953/1981 and cast in 1984.. Quarantania I is an outdoor sculpture by Louise Bourgeois, installed at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston's Lillie and Hugh Roy Cullen Sculpture Garden in the U.S. state of Texas. The bronze sculpture was designed during 1947–1953/1981 and cast in 1984.. 
Memorial to Alessandro Valtrini. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Memorial to Alessandro Valtrini is a funerary monument designed by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini in 1639, and executed by his workshop in the same year. It is situated in the church of the San Lorenzo in Damaso in Rome. It has strong affinities with the Memorial to Ippolito Merenda; both were undertaken by Bernini's workshop and commissioned by Cardinal Francesco Barberini to commend the ecclesiastical work done by Valtrini and Merenda respectively. In aesthetic terms, both broke new ground in figuring Death as a moving skeleton carrying a flowing inscriptions and, in the case of Alessandro Valrtrini monument, a medallion-shaped portrait of Valtrini himself.. The Memorial to Alessandro Valtrini is a funerary monument designed by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini in 1639, and executed by his workshop in the same year. It is situated in the church of the San Lorenzo in Damaso in Rome. It has strong affinities with the Memorial to Ippolito Merenda; both were undertaken by Bernini's workshop and commissioned by Cardinal Francesco Barberini to commend the ecclesiastical work done by Valtrini and Merenda respectively. In aesthetic terms, both broke new ground in figuring Death as a moving skeleton carrying a flowing inscriptions and, in the case of Alessandro Valrtrini monument, a medallion-shaped portrait of Valtrini himself. Valtrini had been a wealthy donor during his lifetime. Three churches he had supported erected monuments to him, Il Gesù (where his body remained), Santa Maria sopra Minerva and the Bernini version in San Lorenzo in Damaso. He died in 1633. Francesco Barberini organised the Bernini commission in the late 1630s.. 
Lying Cow. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Lying Cow is the name of two oil paintings created by Vincent van Gogh around 1882 when he was living at The Hague.In the 1970 catalogue raisonné, based on  Jacob Baart de la Faille's researches, the paintings were dated 1882. Jan Hulsker, however, feels they must be associated with his 1883 painting Cows in the Meadow, a painting known only by a very poor photograph, and accordingly dates them as August 1883, thus executed shortly before van Gogh broke with his mistress Sien Hoornik and left for Drenthe.. Lying Cow is the name of two oil paintings created by Vincent van Gogh around 1882 when he was living at The Hague. In the 1970 catalogue raisonné, based on Jacob Baart de la Faille's researches, the paintings were dated 1882. Jan Hulsker, however, feels they must be associated with his 1883 painting Cows in the Meadow, a painting known only by a very poor photograph, and accordingly dates them as August 1883, thus executed shortly before van Gogh broke with his mistress Sien Hoornik and left for Drenthe.. 
Bearded Slave. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Bearded Slave (Italian: Schiavo barbuto) is a marble sculpture by Michelangelo datable to around 1525–1530 and kept in the Galleria dell'Accademia in Florence. It forms part of the series of "unfinished" Prigioni intended for the Tomb of Pope Julius II.. The Bearded Slave (Italian: Schiavo barbuto) is a marble sculpture by Michelangelo datable to around 1525–1530 and kept in the Galleria dell'Accademia in Florence. It forms part of the series of "unfinished" Prigioni intended for the Tomb of Pope Julius II.. 
Virgin Annunciate. Author Name: Antonello da Messina. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Munich Virgin Annunciate is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Antonello da Messina. Like the more famous Palermo version of the same subject, it shows Mary interrupted at her reading by the Angel of the Annunciation.. The Munich Virgin Annunciate is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Antonello da Messina. Like the more famous Palermo version of the same subject, it shows Mary interrupted at her reading by the Angel of the Annunciation.. 
St. Cecilia Altarpiece. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The St. Cecilia Altarpiece is an oil painting by Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael. Completed in his later years, around 1516-1517, the painting depicts Saint Cecilia, the patron saint of musicians and Church music, listening to a choir of angels in the company of St. Paul, St. John the Evangelist, St. Augustine and Mary Magdalene. Commissioned for a church in Bologna, the painting now hangs there in the Pinacoteca Nazionale, or National Painting Gallery. According to Vasari the musical instruments strewn about Cecilia's feet were not painted by Raphael, but by his student, Giovanni da Udine.. The St. Cecilia Altarpiece is an oil painting by Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael. Completed in his later years, around 1516-1517, the painting depicts Saint Cecilia, the patron saint of musicians and Church music, listening to a choir of angels in the company of St. Paul, St. John the Evangelist, St. Augustine and Mary Magdalene. Commissioned for a church in Bologna, the painting now hangs there in the Pinacoteca Nazionale, or National Painting Gallery. According to Vasari the musical instruments strewn about Cecilia's feet were not painted by Raphael, but by his student, Giovanni da Udine. In 1880, English Romantic poet Percy Shelley described the painting as follows:. 
Portrait of Galeazzo Sanvitale. Author Name: Parmigianino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . Portrait of Galeazzo Sanvitale (1524) is a painting of the condottiero Gian Galeazzo Sanvitale by the Italian late Renaissance artist Parmigianino. It is housed in the National Museum of Capodimonte, Naples, Italy.. Portrait of Galeazzo Sanvitale (1524) is a painting of the condottiero Gian Galeazzo Sanvitale by the Italian late Renaissance artist Parmigianino. It is housed in the National Museum of Capodimonte, Naples, Italy.. 
Bust of Antonio Barberini. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Bust of Antonio Barberini is a portrait sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. The figure is Cardinal Antonio Barberini, the younger brother of the Pope Urban VIII. It was executed some time in the 1620s.. The Bust of Antonio Barberini is a portrait sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. The figure is Cardinal Antonio Barberini, the younger brother of the Pope Urban VIII. It was executed some time in the 1620s.. 
Memoria Urbana Berlin. Author Name: Garaizabal, Juan. . . Memoria Urbana Berlin (also known as Reconstruction Bohemian Bethlehem Church) is a public sculpture by Spanish artist Juan Garaizabal that stands in the middle of the Bethlehemkirchplatz, Mitte district, Berlin, Germany. It was constructed in June 2012 on the mosaic marking the exact site and size of the original Bohemian or Bethlehem Church (German: Böhmische Kirche, Bethlehemskirche), which was destroyed in the war. The sculpture is made up of 800 meters (2,600 feet) of square section (12x12 cm/4.7 in) steel tube and 300 meters (984 feet) of LED illumination system. Its structure draws in the air the lines of the silhouette of the lost construction, recreating its volume in the form of a sketch. It measures 25 x 15 x 31 metres (82 x 49 x 101 feet) in height and weighs 44 short tons (40 . Memoria Urbana Berlin (also known as Reconstruction Bohemian Bethlehem Church) is a public sculpture by Spanish artist Juan Garaizabal that stands in the middle of the Bethlehemkirchplatz, Mitte district, Berlin, Germany. It was constructed in June 2012 on the mosaic marking the exact site and size of the original Bohemian or Bethlehem Church (German: Böhmische Kirche, Bethlehemskirche), which was destroyed in the war. The sculpture is made up of 800 meters (2,600 feet) of square section (12x12 cm/4.7 in) steel tube and 300 meters (984 feet) of LED illumination system. Its structure draws in the air the lines of the silhouette of the lost construction, recreating its volume in the form of a sketch. It measures 25 x 15 x 31 metres (82 x 49 x 101 feet) in height and weighs 44 short tons (40 metric tons).. 
Madonna in Glory with Saints. Author Name: Pietro Perugino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Madonna in Glory with Saints is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Pietro Perugino, dating to c. 1500-1501. It is housed in the Pinacoteca Nazionale of Bologna, Italy.It was originally located in the Scarani Chapel of the church of San Giovanni in Monte.. The Madonna in Glory with Saints is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Pietro Perugino, dating to c. 1500-1501. It is housed in the Pinacoteca Nazionale of Bologna, Italy. It was originally located in the Scarani Chapel of the church of San Giovanni in Monte.. 
San Giobbe Altarpiece. Author Name: Giovanni Bellini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The San Giobbe Altarpiece (Italian: Pala di San Giobbe) is a c. 1487 oil painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini, now in the Gallerie dell'Accademia in Venice.. The San Giobbe Altarpiece (Italian: Pala di San Giobbe) is a c. 1487 oil painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini, now in the Gallerie dell'Accademia in Venice.. 
The Empty Mask. Author Name: René Magritte. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Surrealism. . The Empty Mask (1928) is a painting by Belgian surrealist René Magritte.In his essay Words and Images, published in 1929, Magritte observed that each image "suggests that there are others behind it". Viewed through a freestanding frame of irregular shape, these images are a sky, a lead curtain festooned with sleigh bells, a house façade, a sheet of paper cut-outs, a forest and a fire.. The Empty Mask (1928) is a painting by Belgian surrealist René Magritte. In his essay Words and Images, published in 1929, Magritte observed that each image "suggests that there are others behind it". Viewed through a freestanding frame of irregular shape, these images are a sky, a lead curtain festooned with sleigh bells, a house façade, a sheet of paper cut-outs, a forest and a fire. The title evokes the fear of the invisible which pervades the artist's work and reflects the surrealists' fascination with the subconscious. The painting was purchased in 1973 and is usually on display in the National Museum of Wales.. 
Venus Anadyomene. Author Name: Titian. . . Venus Anadyomene (Greek - literally, Venus rising from the sea), is a c. 1520 oil painting by Titian, depicting Venus rising from the sea and wringing her hair, either after bathing or after her birth. Venus, said to have been born from a shell, is identified by the shell at bottom left. It is smaller than usual in birth of Venus scenes, such as Botticelli's, and is likely just an identifier rather than a sure sign that this is a birth of Venus scene.. Venus Anadyomene (Greek - literally, Venus rising from the sea), is a c. 1520 oil painting by Titian, depicting Venus rising from the sea and wringing her hair, either after bathing or after her birth. Venus, said to have been born from a shell, is identified by the shell at bottom left. It is smaller than usual in birth of Venus scenes, such as Botticelli's, and is likely just an identifier rather than a sure sign that this is a birth of Venus scene. The voluptuousness of the Venus presented, and her sideways glance, also owes much to the Crouching Venus and Cnidian Venus types of antique sculpture. The wringing of her hair is a direct imitation of Apelles's lost masterwork of the same title. Titian deliberately included this detail to prove that he could rival the art of antiquity in which the goddess was also washing her hair — a fact mentioned in Pliny's Natural History. The painting is in exceptionally fine condition. It was once owned by Christina of Sweden, and passed via the Orleans Collection to 6th Duke of Sutherland, who lent it and 26 other paintings to the National Galleries of Scotland in 1945. On the death of the childless Duke in 2000, the work was acquired from his cousin, Francis Egerton, 7th Duke of Sutherland for more than £11m in 2003, with the aid of the National Arts Collection Fund. Also contributing to the purchase were the Wolfson Foundation, the Heritage Lottery Fund (£7.6m), and the Scottish Executive (£2.5m). To facilitate the sale, £2.4m of the picture's value was offset against inheritance tax. The market value has been estimated at £20m. After the sale, the 7th Duke said, "To all intents and purposes nothing has changed, except the painting will now belong to the nation." It soon afterwards formed the centrepiece of an exhibition in 2004 and the anniversary exhibition "Saved!" for the National Art Collections Fund.. 
Madonna and Child. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Madonna and Child is a painting finished c. 1503 by the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael. It is housed in the Norton Simon Museum in Pasadena, California.. The Madonna and Child is a painting finished c. 1503 by the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael. It is housed in the Norton Simon Museum in Pasadena, California.. 
Father and Son. Author Name: Louise Bourgeois. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Feminist_art. . Father and Son is an outdoor 2005 fountain and sculpture by Louise Bourgeois, installed at Olympic Sculpture Park in Seattle, Washington, in the United States. It is made of stainless steel, aluminum, water and bronze (bell).. Father and Son is an outdoor 2005 fountain and sculpture by Louise Bourgeois, installed at Olympic Sculpture Park in Seattle, Washington, in the United States. It is made of stainless steel, aluminum, water and bronze (bell).. 
London Pride. Author Name: Frank Dobson. . . London Pride is a sculpture by the British artist Frank Dobson located on Queen's Walk on London's South Bank. The sculpture was given Grade II listed status in January 2016. The sculpture depicts two nude women, it sits on a slate platform, with an inscription carved by David Kindersley in front of the piece that reads:. London Pride is a sculpture by the British artist Frank Dobson located on Queen's Walk on London's South Bank. The sculpture was given Grade II listed status in January 2016. The sculpture depicts two nude women, it sits on a slate platform, with an inscription carved by David Kindersley in front of the piece that reads:. 
Last Supper. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Last Supper (1630–1631) is an oil painting by Peter Paul Rubens. It was commissioned by Catherine Lescuyer as a commemorative piece for her father. Rubens created it as part of an altarpiece in the Church of St. Rombout (Romuald) in Mechelen. The painting depicts Jesus and the Apostles during the Last Supper, with Judas dressed in blue turning back towards the viewer and away from the table. Other than Jesus, the most prominent figure is Judas. Judas holds his right hand to his mouth with his eyes avoiding direct contact with the other figures in the painting creating a nervous expression. Jesus is dressed in red and has a yellow halo surrounding his head with his face tilted upwards. Jesus is located centrally in the painting surrounded by his disciples with six on each side, and he h. The Last Supper (1630–1631) is an oil painting by Peter Paul Rubens. It was commissioned by Catherine Lescuyer as a commemorative piece for her father. Rubens created it as part of an altarpiece in the Church of St. Rombout (Romuald) in Mechelen. The painting depicts Jesus and the Apostles during the Last Supper, with Judas dressed in blue turning back towards the viewer and away from the table. Other than Jesus, the most prominent figure is Judas. Judas holds his right hand to his mouth with his eyes avoiding direct contact with the other figures in the painting creating a nervous expression. Jesus is dressed in red and has a yellow halo surrounding his head with his face tilted upwards. Jesus is located centrally in the painting surrounded by his disciples with six on each side, and he holds a loaf of bread with a cup of wine in front of him. Out of all of the figures, he is the most in the light with the figures to the farthest left being the most in shadow. “The scene thus represents a perfect conflation of the theological significance of the Last Supper” meaning the conflation between the blessing of the bread and the wine while still being pivotal in the sense of revealing the betrayal. As in many other Northern European depictions, a dog with a bone can be seen in the scene, probably a simple pet. It may represent faith, dogs are traditionally symbols of and are representing faith. According to J. Richard Judson the dog near Judas perhaps represents greed or evil, as the companion of Judas, as in John 13:27. This painting followed the first unsuccessful attempt by Rubens to produce a Last Supper in 1611, when his patrons backed out the last minute, perhaps due to the high price of 4,000 Guilder asked by Rubens. Leonardo da Vinci's Last Supper fresco was a significant influence on Rubens who created an etching after the Davinci Last Supper, which was one of Rubens first attempts to express the full range of human emotion printed by Pieter Soutman. Rubens was also influenced by his humanist ideals from which he extracts biblical themes. Rubens often made engravings following the completion of his works. Other artists used these engravings to serve as a basis of their own works. These copies were even collected. The engravings and copies helped to lead to the popularity of Rubens’ works during his lifetime.. 
Monument to Lenin. Author Name: Merkurov, Sergey. . . The year 1946 was marked by many events that left an imprint on the history of Soviet and Russian fine arts.. The year 1946 was marked by many events that left an imprint on the history of Soviet and Russian fine arts.. 
Woman with Flowered Hat. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Woman with Flowered Hat is a 1963 pop art painting with Magna on canvas by Roy Lichtenstein. The work is based on a Pablo Picasso portrait of Dora Maar. In May 2013, it sold for a record price for a Lichtenstein work.. Woman with Flowered Hat is a 1963 pop art painting with Magna on canvas by Roy Lichtenstein. The work is based on a Pablo Picasso portrait of Dora Maar. In May 2013, it sold for a record price for a Lichtenstein work.. 
A Vision of Fiammetta. Author Name: Dante Gabriel Rossetti. . . A Vision of Fiammetta is an oil painting in the Pre-Raphaelite which was created by Dante Gabriel Rossetti in 1878. The painting was one half of one of Rossetti's "double works", accompanying his Ballads and Sonnets (1881). Maria Spartali Stillman modelled for the painting. The subject of painting is Boccacio's muse named Fiammetta.. A Vision of Fiammetta is an oil painting in the Pre-Raphaelite which was created by Dante Gabriel Rossetti in 1878. The painting was one half of one of Rossetti's "double works", accompanying his Ballads and Sonnets (1881). Maria Spartali Stillman modelled for the painting. The subject of painting is Boccacio's muse named Fiammetta.. 
The Kearsarge at Boulogne. Author Name: Édouard Manet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Kearsarge at Boulogne is a painting by Édouard Manet which hangs in the Metropolitan Museum of Art. The painting depicts the Union cruiser USS Kearsarge, victor of the Battle of Cherbourg over the rebel privateer CSS Alabama.Although he had not witnessed the battle, Manet visited Cherbourg one month after and painted a watercolour portrait of Kearsarge, now exhibited in Dijon. The oil on canvas was probably based on this watercolour.Manet later painted an account of the battle itself, The Battle of the Kearsarge and the Alabama.. The Kearsarge at Boulogne is a painting by Édouard Manet which hangs in the Metropolitan Museum of Art. The painting depicts the Union cruiser USS Kearsarge, victor of the Battle of Cherbourg over the rebel privateer CSS Alabama. Although he had not witnessed the battle, Manet visited Cherbourg one month after and painted a watercolour portrait of Kearsarge, now exhibited in Dijon. The oil on canvas was probably based on this watercolour. Manet later painted an account of the battle itself, The Battle of the Kearsarge and the Alabama.. 
Discovery of America. Author Name: Persico, Luigi. . . Discovery of America (1837–50) is a large marble sculpture group, by Luigi Persico, assembled in front of the east façade of the United States Capitol building.. Discovery of America (1837–50) is a large marble sculpture group, by Luigi Persico, assembled in front of the east façade of the United States Capitol building.. 
Madonna of the Pomegranate. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Madonna of the Pomegranate (Madonna della Melagrana) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli, circa 1487. It is housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence, Italy.Several copies of the work exist, currently held at the Berlin State Museums, the Wernher Collection in London and the Aynard Collection at Lyon.. The Madonna of the Pomegranate (Madonna della Melagrana) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli, circa 1487. It is housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence, Italy. Several copies of the work exist, currently held at the Berlin State Museums, the Wernher Collection in London and the Aynard Collection at Lyon.. 
Mother of Pearl and Silver: The Andalusian. Author Name: James Abbott McNeill Whistler. . Author Movement: Founder of Tonalism. . Mother of Pearl and Silver: The Andalusian is a painting by James McNeill Whistler. The work shows a woman in full figure standing with her back to the viewer, with her head in profile. The model is Ethel Whibley, (née Birnie Philip) the artist's secretary and sister-in-law.The colour scheme of the painting is black, mother of pearl and silver. The title refers to Ethel’s grey silk evening dress, which is a Parisian dress in a belle époque style, with the transparent layered sleeves of the black bolero jacket resembling a traditional Andalusian costume.. Mother of Pearl and Silver: The Andalusian is a painting by James McNeill Whistler. The work shows a woman in full figure standing with her back to the viewer, with her head in profile. The model is Ethel Whibley, (née Birnie Philip) the artist's secretary and sister-in-law. The colour scheme of the painting is black, mother of pearl and silver. The title refers to Ethel’s grey silk evening dress, which is a Parisian dress in a belle époque style, with the transparent layered sleeves of the black bolero jacket resembling a traditional Andalusian costume.. 
Saint Candidus. Author Name: Bru, Ayne. . . Saint Candidus is a painting by Ayne Bru conserved at the National Art Museum of Catalonia.. Saint Candidus is a painting by Ayne Bru conserved at the National Art Museum of Catalonia.. 
Edwin B. Hay. Author Name: Vinnie Ream. . . Edwin B. Hay is a public artwork by American artist Vinnie Ream, located at Rock Creek Cemetery in Washington, D.C., United States. "Edwin B. Hay" was surveyed as part of the Smithsonian's Save Outdoor Sculpture! program in 1993. It serves as the gravesite for the Hay family.. Edwin B. Hay is a public artwork by American artist Vinnie Ream, located at Rock Creek Cemetery in Washington, D.C., United States. "Edwin B. Hay" was surveyed as part of the Smithsonian's Save Outdoor Sculpture! program in 1993. It serves as the gravesite for the Hay family.. 
Madras Rouge. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . Madras Rouge (The Red Madras Headress) is a painting by Henri Matisse from 1907. The woman depicted is the painter's wife, Amélie Noellie Parayre Matisse.The painting was illustrated in Gelett Burgess, The Wild Men of Paris, The Architectural Record, May 1910, New York.. Madras Rouge (The Red Madras Headress) is a painting by Henri Matisse from 1907. The woman depicted is the painter's wife, Amélie Noellie Parayre Matisse. The painting was illustrated in Gelett Burgess, The Wild Men of Paris, The Architectural Record, May 1910, New York.. 
Adoration of the Magi. Author Name: Filippino Lippi. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Adoration of the Magi is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Filippino Lippi. It is signed and dated at 1496. It is housed in the Uffizi of Florence.The panel was painted for the Convent of the San Donato agli Scopeti, in substitution of the one commissioned in 1481 to Leonardo da Vinci, who left it unfinished. In 1529 it was acquired by Cardinal Carlo de' Medici and in 1666 it became part of the Uffizi collection.. The Adoration of the Magi is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Filippino Lippi. It is signed and dated at 1496. It is housed in the Uffizi of Florence. The panel was painted for the Convent of the San Donato agli Scopeti, in substitution of the one commissioned in 1481 to Leonardo da Vinci, who left it unfinished. In 1529 it was acquired by Cardinal Carlo de' Medici and in 1666 it became part of the Uffizi collection. Filippino Lippi followed Leonardo's setting, in particular in the central part of the work. Much of its inspiration was clearly derived from Botticelli's Adoration of the Magi, also in the Uffizi: this is evident in the disposition of the characters on the two sides, with the Holy Family portrayed in the centre under. Similarly to Botticelli's work, Filippino also portrayed numerous members of the Medici cadet line, who had adhered to the Savonarolian Republic in the period in which the work was executed. On the left, kneeling and holding with a quadrant, is Pierfrancesco de' Medici. Behind him, standing, are his two sons Giovanni, holding a goblet, and Lorenzo, from whom a page is removing a crown. The general style is that of Filippino's late career, characterized by a greater care to details and by a nervous rhythm in the forms, influenced by the knowledge of foreign painting schools (as also in the landscape of the background).. 
View of the Domaine Saint-Joseph. Author Name: Paul Cézanne. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . View of the Domaine Saint-Joseph is a painting by French artist Paul Cézanne. Another name given to the work is La Colline des pauvres ("The Poorhouse on The Hill").Cézanne painted the work in the 1880s. It was exhibited in the Armory Show of 1913 and was purchased by the Metropolitan Museum of Art for the highest price paid by any gallery for a work in that exhibition.. View of the Domaine Saint-Joseph is a painting by French artist Paul Cézanne. Another name given to the work is La Colline des pauvres ("The Poorhouse on The Hill"). Cézanne painted the work in the 1880s. It was exhibited in the Armory Show of 1913 and was purchased by the Metropolitan Museum of Art for the highest price paid by any gallery for a work in that exhibition.. 
Las Hilanderas. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Las Hilanderas ("The Spinners") is a painting by the Spanish painter Diego Velázquez, housed in the Museo del Prado of Madrid, Spain. It is also known by the title The Fable of Arachne. It is usually regarded as a late work by the artist, dating from around 1657.. Las Hilanderas ("The Spinners") is a painting by the Spanish painter Diego Velázquez, housed in the Museo del Prado of Madrid, Spain. It is also known by the title The Fable of Arachne. It is usually regarded as a late work by the artist, dating from around 1657. Traditionally, it was believed that the painting depicted women workers in the tapestry workshop of Santa Isabel. In 1948, however, Diego Angula observed that the iconography suggested Ovid's Fable of Arachne, the story of the mortal Arachne who dared to challenge the goddess Athena to a weaving competition and, on winning the contest, was turned into a spider by the jealous goddess. This is now generally accepted as the correct interpretation of the painting. It was painted for Don Pedro de Arce, huntsman to King Philip IV. It entered the royal collection in the eighteenth century, and was probably damaged by the fire at the Royal Alcazar of Madrid in 1734. New sections were added at the sides (37 cm in total) and over 50 cm to the top of the canvas. The painting remains at the extended size but is currently (in November 2013) displayed behind a screen with a frame added over a cut-away section revealing only the original dimensions. Stylistic elements, such as the lightness, the economical use of paint, and the clear influence of the Italian Baroque, have led many scholars to assert that it was painted in 1657. Others place it earlier, at some time between 1644–50, perhaps because certain aspects of its form and content recall the bodegones Velázquez painted in his early career. In Las Hilanderas, Velázquez developed a layered composition, an approach he had often used in his earlier bodegones, such as the Kitchen Scene with Christ in the House of Martha and Mary. In the foreground is the contest. The painting depicts and exemplifies the objectification of women, and the superiority of their male counterparts as thought by the majority of people at this time period. The goddess Athena, disguised as an old woman, is on the left and Arachne, in a white top facing away from the viewer, is on the right. Three helpers assist them. In the background, a raised platform (perhaps a stage) displays the finished tapestries. The one visible to us is Arachne's, showing The Rape of Europa — another Greek myth. This is in fact a copy of Titian's painting of the subject, which was in the Spanish royal collection. The painting has been interpreted as an allegory of the arts and even as a commentary on the range of creative endeavor, with the fine arts represented by the goddess and the crafts represented by Arachne. Others think that Velázquez' message was simply that to create great works of art, both great creativity and hard technical work are required. Other scholars have read political allegories into the work and interpreted it through popular culture.. 
La balançoire. Author Name: Pierre-Auguste Renoir. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Swing (French: La balançoire) is an oil on canvas painting by the French artist Pierre-Auguste Renoir who was a leading exponent of the Impressionist style. The painting was executed in 1876. The painting measures 41 x 23 centimetres and is in the Musée d’Orsay. Renoir executed the painting in what are now the Musée de Montmartre gardens. He had rented a cottage in the gardens so that he be could closer to the Moulin de la Galette where he was engaged in painting Bal du moulin de la Galette.. The Swing (French: La balançoire) is an oil on canvas painting by the French artist Pierre-Auguste Renoir who was a leading exponent of the Impressionist style. The painting was executed in 1876. The painting measures 41 x 23 centimetres and is in the Musée d’Orsay. Renoir executed the painting in what are now the Musée de Montmartre gardens. He had rented a cottage in the gardens so that he be could closer to the Moulin de la Galette where he was engaged in painting Bal du moulin de la Galette.. 
Annunciation. Author Name: Antonello da Messina. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Annunciation is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Antonello da Messina, executed in 1474. It is housed in the Palazzo Bellomo Museum, in the historical center of Syracuse, Sicily.. The Annunciation is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Antonello da Messina, executed in 1474. It is housed in the Palazzo Bellomo Museum, in the historical center of Syracuse, Sicily.. 
Spiral Jetty. Author Name: Robert Smithson. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Land_art. . Spiral Jetty is an earthwork sculpture constructed in April 1970 that is considered to be the central work of American sculptor Robert Smithson. Smithson documented the construction of the sculpture in a 32-minute color film also titled Spiral Jetty.Originally black basalt rock against ruddy water, Spiral Jetty is now largely white against pink due to salt encrustation.Since the initial construction of Spiral Jetty, those interested in its fate have dealt with questions of proposed changes in land use in the area surrounding the sculpture and of the proper amount of preservation, if any.. Spiral Jetty is an earthwork sculpture constructed in April 1970 that is considered to be the central work of American sculptor Robert Smithson. Smithson documented the construction of the sculpture in a 32-minute color film also titled Spiral Jetty. Built on the northeastern shore of the Great Salt Lake near Rozel Point in Utah entirely of mud, salt crystals, basalt rocks and water, Spiral Jetty forms a 1,500-foot-long (460 m), 15-foot-wide (4.6 m) counterclockwise coil jutting from the shore of the lake. The water level of the lake varies with precipitation in the mountains surrounding the area, revealing the jetty in times of drought and submerging it during times of normal precipitation. Originally black basalt rock against ruddy water, Spiral Jetty is now largely white against pink due to salt encrustation. Since the initial construction of Spiral Jetty, those interested in its fate have dealt with questions of proposed changes in land use in the area surrounding the sculpture and of the proper amount of preservation, if any.. 
Anthony J. Drexel. Author Name: Moses Jacob Ezekiel. . . Anthony J. Drexel is a bronze statue by Moses Jacob Ezekiel.It is located at 32nd Street and Market Street, Philadelphia.It was dedicated on June 17, 1905, at Belmont and Lansdowne Avenues. It was relocated to Drexel University, in December 1966, and again in 2003.The inscription reads:(Sculpture, proper right front, on oriental carpet near base:)(Base, front:)(Base, left side:) FOUNDER OF THE DREXEL1826 1893 (Base, rear:) INSTITUTE OF ARTPRESENTED TO THE CITIZENSOF PHILADELPHIA BY HIS FRIEND JOHN H. HARJES1904(Base, right side:) SCIENCE AND INDUSTRY1826 1893 signed. Anthony J. Drexel is a bronze statue by Moses Jacob Ezekiel.It is located at 32nd Street and Market Street, Philadelphia. It was dedicated on June 17, 1905, at Belmont and Lansdowne Avenues. It was relocated to Drexel University, in December 1966, and again in 2003. The inscription reads:(Sculpture, proper right front, on oriental carpet near base:) (Base, front:) (Base, left side:) FOUNDER OF THE DREXEL1826 1893 (Base, rear:) INSTITUTE OF ARTPRESENTED TO THE CITIZENSOF PHILADELPHIA BY HIS FRIEND JOHN H. HARJES1904(Base, right side:) SCIENCE AND INDUSTRY 1826 1893 signed. 
Agricola I. Author Name: David Smith. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . Agricola I is an abstract sculpture by American artist David Smith. The artwork is located on the grounds at and in the collection of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in Washington, D.C., United States. The word "agricola" means "farmer" in Latin. This work is the first in the Agricola series by Smith.. Agricola I is an abstract sculpture by American artist David Smith. The artwork is located on the grounds at and in the collection of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in Washington, D.C., United States. The word "agricola" means "farmer" in Latin. This work is the first in the Agricola series by Smith.. 
Portrait of Jakob Fugger. Author Name: Albrecht Dürer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Jakob Fugger is a oil painting by German Renaissance artist Albrecht Dürer, executed around 1520.. The Portrait of Jakob Fugger is a oil painting by German Renaissance artist Albrecht Dürer, executed around 1520.. 
Madonna dell'Impannata. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Madonna dell'Impannata is an oil on panel (158x125 cm) painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael. It has been preserved at the Palatine Gallery in Florence.. The Madonna dell'Impannata is an oil on panel (158x125 cm) painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael. It has been preserved at the Palatine Gallery in Florence.. 
David. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . David ([ˈdaːvid]) is a masterpiece of Renaissance sculpture created between 1501 and 1504 by Michelangelo.It is a 5.17-metre (17.0 ft) marble statue of a standing male nude. The statue represents the Biblical hero David, a favoured subject in the art of Florence. Originally commissioned as one of a series of statues of prophets to be positioned along the roofline of the east end of Florence Cathedral, the statue was placed instead in a public square, outside the Palazzo della Signoria, the seat of civic government in Florence, where it was unveiled on 8 September 1504.. David ([ˈdaːvid]) is a masterpiece of Renaissance sculpture created between 1501 and 1504 by Michelangelo. It is a 5.17-metre (17.0 ft) marble statue of a standing male nude. The statue represents the Biblical hero David, a favoured subject in the art of Florence. Originally commissioned as one of a series of statues of prophets to be positioned along the roofline of the east end of Florence Cathedral, the statue was placed instead in a public square, outside the Palazzo della Signoria, the seat of civic government in Florence, where it was unveiled on 8 September 1504. Because of the nature of the hero it represented, the statue soon came to symbolize the defense of civil liberties embodied in the Republic of Florence, an independent city-state threatened on all sides by more powerful rival states and by the hegemony of the Medici family. The eyes of David, with a warning glare, were turned towards Rome. The statue was moved to the Galleria dell'Accademia, Florence, in 1873, and later replaced at the original location by a replica.. 
Une fleur. Author Name: Vlaho Bukovac. . . Une fleur (A Flower) is a female nude painted in 1887 by the Croatian artist Vlaho Bukovac.This Symbolist painting in pastel blues and pale flesh tones depicts a beautiful female nude reclining next to an assortment of flowers and holding to her lips a small spray of two rosebuds. The obvious meaning is that she is the flower referred to in the painting's title, with all of the attendant implications of blossoming and sexual awakening.Painting is currently held in private collection after it was sold at the London’s Bonhams auction house for £100,800.00 to unknown collector.. Une fleur (A Flower) is a female nude painted in 1887 by the Croatian artist Vlaho Bukovac. This Symbolist painting in pastel blues and pale flesh tones depicts a beautiful female nude reclining next to an assortment of flowers and holding to her lips a small spray of two rosebuds. The obvious meaning is that she is the flower referred to in the painting's title, with all of the attendant implications of blossoming and sexual awakening. Painting is currently held in private collection after it was sold at the London’s Bonhams auction house for £100,800.00 to unknown collector.. 
La Mousmé. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . La Mousmé also known as La Mousmé, Sitting in a Cane Chair, Half-Figure (with a branch of oleander) was painted by Vincent van Gogh in 1888 while living in Arles, which Van Gogh dubbed "the Japan of the south". Retreating from the city, he hoped that his time in Arles would evoke in his work the simple, yet dramatic expression of Japanese art.. La Mousmé also known as La Mousmé, Sitting in a Cane Chair, Half-Figure (with a branch of oleander) was painted by Vincent van Gogh in 1888 while living in Arles, which Van Gogh dubbed "the Japan of the south". Retreating from the city, he hoped that his time in Arles would evoke in his work the simple, yet dramatic expression of Japanese art.. 
Swans Reflecting Elephants. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Swans Reflecting Elephants (1937) is a painting by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dalí. This painting is from Dalí's Paranoiac-critical period. Painted using oil on canvas, it contains one of Dalí's famous double images. The double images were a major part of Dalí's "paranoia-critical method," which he put forward in his 1935 essay "The Conquest of the Irrational." He explained his process as a "spontaneous method of irrational understanding based upon the interpretative critical association of delirious phenomena." Dalí used this method to bring forth the hallucinatory forms, double images and visual illusions that filled his paintings during the Thirties. As with the earlier Metamorphosis of Narcissus, Swans Reflecting Elephants uses the reflection in a lake to create the double image s. Swans Reflecting Elephants (1937) is a painting by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dalí. This painting is from Dalí's Paranoiac-critical period. Painted using oil on canvas, it contains one of Dalí's famous double images. The double images were a major part of Dalí's "paranoia-critical method," which he put forward in his 1935 essay "The Conquest of the Irrational." He explained his process as a "spontaneous method of irrational understanding based upon the interpretative critical association of delirious phenomena." Dalí used this method to bring forth the hallucinatory forms, double images and visual illusions that filled his paintings during the Thirties. As with the earlier Metamorphosis of Narcissus, Swans Reflecting Elephants uses the reflection in a lake to create the double image seen in the painting. In Metamorphosis, the reflection of Narcissus is used to mirror the shape of the hand on the right of the picture. Here, the three swans in front of bleak, leafless trees are reflected in the lake so that the swans' necks become the elephants' trunks and the trees become the legs of the elephants. In the background of the painting is a Catalonian landscape depicted in fiery fall colors, the brushwork creating swirls in the cliffs that surround the lake, to contrast with the stillness of the water.. 
Palestrina Pietà. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Palestrina Pietà is a marble sculpture by the Italian High Renaissance, dating from c. 1555 and housed in the Academy of Fine Arts, Florence, Italy. It was formerly attributed to Michelangelo, but now it is mostly considered to have been completed by someone else. The sculpture depicts three figures, one of them the body of Jesus Christ.. The Palestrina Pietà is a marble sculpture by the Italian High Renaissance, dating from c. 1555 and housed in the Academy of Fine Arts, Florence, Italy. It was formerly attributed to Michelangelo, but now it is mostly considered to have been completed by someone else. The sculpture depicts three figures, one of them the body of Jesus Christ.. 
Madonna with Child between Sts. Flavian and Onuphrius. Author Name: Lorenzo Lotto. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Madonna with Child between Saints Flavian and Onuphrius is an oil painting by Lorenzo Lotto, signed and dated 1508, now in the Borghese Gallery, Rome, Italy.The painting was executed in the same year of the Recanati Polyptych, when Lotto moved to Rome (although it is not known if he had already painted it before leaving the Marche). It was first mentioned in a 1693 document, when it was already part of the Borghese Collection.. Madonna with Child between Saints Flavian and Onuphrius is an oil painting by Lorenzo Lotto, signed and dated 1508, now in the Borghese Gallery, Rome, Italy. The painting was executed in the same year of the Recanati Polyptych, when Lotto moved to Rome (although it is not known if he had already painted it before leaving the Marche). It was first mentioned in a 1693 document, when it was already part of the Borghese Collection.. 
At the Stock Exchange. Author Name: Edgar Degas. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Portraits at the Stock Exchange (also known as At the Bourse) is a painting by the French artist Edgar Degas. Completed in about 1879, the painting was already in the collection of the French banker Ernest May when it was listed in the catalogue of the fourth Impressionist exhibition that year. It may also have been shown in the next Impressionist exhibit in 1880, but it was not well known until it entered the collections of the Louvre in 1923. The canvas shows an interior corner of the open trading floor of the Paris Stock Exchange (The Paris Bourse). May stands in the center of the picture wearing a top hat and pince-nez, listening to his colleague, a certain M. Bolâtre, leaning over his shoulder. They are likely discussing a document, possibly a bordereau, held aloft by a partially obsc. Portraits at the Stock Exchange (also known as At the Bourse) is a painting by the French artist Edgar Degas. Completed in about 1879, the painting was already in the collection of the French banker Ernest May when it was listed in the catalogue of the fourth Impressionist exhibition that year. It may also have been shown in the next Impressionist exhibit in 1880, but it was not well known until it entered the collections of the Louvre in 1923. The canvas shows an interior corner of the open trading floor of the Paris Stock Exchange (The Paris Bourse). May stands in the center of the picture wearing a top hat and pince-nez, listening to his colleague, a certain M. Bolâtre, leaning over his shoulder. They are likely discussing a document, possibly a bordereau, held aloft by a partially obscured third party. Although the owner and possible commissioner of the work was himself Jewish, Linda Nochlin has interpreted the painting as an anti-Semitic depiction of Jews in Paris, due especially to the exaggerated features and postures of the subjects. In Europe during the late 19th century there were fears of a financial conspiracy, in which Jewish financiers were thought to manipulate business for their gain. Degas's anti-Semitism may have been fueled by the bankruptcy of his own family's banking business, leaving Degas with some degree of resentment toward banking and those who symbolized it, but there is little overt evidence of this attitude until the time of the Dreyfus affair two decades later. The technique of Portraits at the Stock Exchange can be more closely related to Impressionism than many of Degas's earlier works. Evidence for this can be found in the painting's quickly applied, sketchy brushstrokes. The psychological perspective of the painting is one of detachment, a common viewpoint in Impressionist paintings. This painting currently resides in the Musée d'Orsay in Paris. A smaller, pastel sketch of the same subject can be found in the Metropolitan Museum of Art.. 
Madonna di Senigallia. Author Name: Piero della Francesca. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Madonna di Senigallia is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Piero della Francesca, finished around 1474. It is housed in the Galleria Nazionale delle Marche, in the Ducal Palace of Urbino.. The Madonna di Senigallia is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Piero della Francesca, finished around 1474. It is housed in the Galleria Nazionale delle Marche, in the Ducal Palace of Urbino. From its small scale the painting was intended for private devotion. It was noticed for the first time in 1822 in the church of the Observant Franciscan convent of Santa Maria delle Grazie just outside Senigallia (Marche), whence the current name. Senigallia was wrested from Sigismondo Malatesta by Federico Montefeltro: both men were patrons of Piero. The commission was likely from or on behalf of Giovanni Della Rovere, betrothed in 1474 to Giovanna Montefeltro, at which time Federico made Giovanni, lord of Senigallia. Following its rediscovery the painting was taken to the Ducal Palace, Urbino. The 1990s restoration showed the high quality of Piero della Francesca's treatment of light, as well as the influence of Flemish masters on it, both in its oil on panel medium and in details such as the basket with linen gauze, the coral, and the fabric covering the Madonna's head. The light, which realistically enters from the window on the left, is a symbol of the Virgin's conception. The linen in the basket is instead an allusion to her purity, while the case for hosts in the shelf and the necklace and pendant of coral worn by the infant Jesus both hint to the Eucharist sacrifice. The staring, thoughtful immobility of all the characters would be also an allusion to the latter.. 
LaFayette Fountain. Author Name: Lorado Taft. . . Lafayette Fountain is an 1887 fountain by sculptor Lorado Taft, located on the grounds of the Tippecanoe County Courthouse in Lafayette, Indiana. The fountain is composed of a number of tiered bowls with a marble statue of the Marquis de LaFayette on top. He holds a sword next to his heart in his right hand and has a cape draped over his left arm.. Lafayette Fountain is an 1887 fountain by sculptor Lorado Taft, located on the grounds of the Tippecanoe County Courthouse in Lafayette, Indiana. The fountain is composed of a number of tiered bowls with a marble statue of the Marquis de LaFayette on top. He holds a sword next to his heart in his right hand and has a cape draped over his left arm.. 
Le Goûter. Author Name: Jean Metzinger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Le Goûter, also known as Tea Time (Tea-Time), and Femme à la Cuillère (Woman with a teaspoon) is an oil painting created in 1911 by the French artist and theorist Jean Metzinger (1883–1956). It was exhibited in Paris at the Salon d'Automne of 1911, and the Salon de la Section d'Or, 1912.Le Goûter forms part of the Louise and Walter Arensberg Collection, Philadelphia Museum of Art.. Le Goûter, also known as Tea Time (Tea-Time), and Femme à la Cuillère (Woman with a teaspoon) is an oil painting created in 1911 by the French artist and theorist Jean Metzinger (1883–1956). It was exhibited in Paris at the Salon d'Automne of 1911, and the Salon de la Section d'Or, 1912. The painting was first reproduced (illustrated) in Chroniques Médico-Artistique, Le Sabotage Anatomique au Salon d'Automne (1911). The following year it was reproduced in Du "Cubisme", by Jean Metzinger and Albert Gleizes (1912). In 1913 it was published in The Cubist Painters, Aesthetic Meditations (Les Peintres Cubistes) by Guillaume Apollinaire. The painting was subsequently published in Arthur Jerome Eddy's Cubists and Post-impressionism, 1914, titled The Taster. André Salmon dubbed this painting "La Joconde du Cubisme" (La Joconde Cubiste), The Mona Lisa of Cubism (Mona Lisa with a teaspoon). Tea Time "was far more famous than any painting that Picasso and Braque had made up until this time", according to curator Michael Taylor (Philadelphia Museum of Art), "because Picasso and Braque, by not showing at the Salons, have actually removed themselves from the public... For most people, the idea of Cubism was actually associated with an artist like Metzinger, far more than Picasso." (Taylor, 2010) Le Goûter forms part of the Louise and Walter Arensberg Collection, Philadelphia Museum of Art.. 
Levitated Mass. Author Name: Michael Heizer. . . Levitated Mass is a 2012 large-scale sculpture by Michael Heizer on the campus of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. The installation consists of a 340-ton boulder affixed above a concrete trench through which visitors may walk. The nature, expense and scale of the installation made it an instant topic of discussion within the art world.The piece is open to the public during museum hours and does not require museum admission.. Levitated Mass is a 2012 large-scale sculpture by Michael Heizer on the campus of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. The installation consists of a 340-ton boulder affixed above a concrete trench through which visitors may walk. The nature, expense and scale of the installation made it an instant topic of discussion within the art world. The piece is open to the public during museum hours and does not require museum admission.. 
The Kiss. Author Name: Constantin Brâncuși. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Modernism. . The Kiss is a sculpture by Romanian sculptor Constantin Brâncuși. It is an early example of his proto-cubist style of non-literal representation. This plaster was exhibited at the 1913 Armory Show and published in the Chicago Tribune, 25 March 1913. This early plaster sculpture is one of six casts that Brancusi made of the 1907–08 The Kiss. The original stone carving is in the Muzeul de Arta at Craiova, Romania. He created many versions of The Kiss, further simplifying geometric forms and sparse objects in each version, tending each time further toward abstraction. His abstract style emphasizes simple geometrical lines that balance forms inherent in his materials with the symbolic allusions of representational art. Here, the shape of the original block of material is maintained. This versi. The Kiss is a sculpture by Romanian sculptor Constantin Brâncuși. It is an early example of his proto-cubist style of non-literal representation. This plaster was exhibited at the 1913 Armory Show and published in the Chicago Tribune, 25 March 1913. This early plaster sculpture is one of six casts that Brancusi made of the 1907–08 The Kiss. The original stone carving is in the Muzeul de Arta at Craiova, Romania. He created many versions of The Kiss, further simplifying geometric forms and sparse objects in each version, tending each time further toward abstraction. His abstract style emphasizes simple geometrical lines that balance forms inherent in his materials with the symbolic allusions of representational art. Here, the shape of the original block of material is maintained. This version of The Kiss is one of the artists most well known works, along with Sleeping Muse (1908), Prometheus (1911), Mademoiselle Pogany (1913), The Newborn (1915), Bird in Space (1919) and The Column of the Infinite (Coloana infinitului), known as The Endless Column (1938). Another version of The Kiss serves as a tombstone in Montparnasse cemetery in Paris, France. Another version still can be seen at the Philadelphia Museum of Art.. 
Haller Madonna. Author Name: Albrecht Dürer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Haller Madonna is an oil painting by Albrecht Dürer, dating to around 1498. It is now in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, DC.. The Haller Madonna is an oil painting by Albrecht Dürer, dating to around 1498. It is now in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, DC.. 
Le Grand Canal. Author Name: Claude Monet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Le Grand Canal is an oil on canvas painting by French Impressionist painter Claude Monet (1840 - 1926). This painting is part of a series of paintings Monet undertook during 1908. This painting series en plein air, is a classic view of the Grand Canal, an attempt to capture the ever-changing face Venice, as seen from the Palazzo Barbaro, where he stayed during his trip, was painted during a period that is generally regarded by art historians as the peak of his career. One of the paintings from this series of Venetian waterscapes by Claude Monet was sold for more than $35 million at 2015 Sotheby's auction. Sotheby's called this painting "one of the most celebrated Venice paintings". Previously it has been in the private collection of the New Orleans sugar magnate, Hunt Henderson, who was a . Le Grand Canal is an oil on canvas painting by French Impressionist painter Claude Monet (1840 - 1926). This painting is part of a series of paintings Monet undertook during 1908. This painting series en plein air, is a classic view of the Grand Canal, an attempt to capture the ever-changing face Venice, as seen from the Palazzo Barbaro, where he stayed during his trip, was painted during a period that is generally regarded by art historians as the peak of his career. One of the paintings from this series of Venetian waterscapes by Claude Monet was sold for more than $35 million at 2015 Sotheby's auction. Sotheby's called this painting "one of the most celebrated Venice paintings". Previously it has been in the private collection of the New Orleans sugar magnate, Hunt Henderson, who was a noted art collector.. 
Christ Child with a Walking Frame. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . Christ Child with a Walking Frame is a part of an altarpiece by Netherlandish artist Hieronymus Bosch, painted on the reverse of his Christ Carrying the Cross. Measuring 28 centimetres (11 inches) in diameter, it is at the Kunsthistorisches Museum (Museum of Art History), Vienna, Austria.. Christ Child with a Walking Frame is a part of an altarpiece by Netherlandish artist Hieronymus Bosch, painted on the reverse of his Christ Carrying the Cross. Measuring 28 centimetres (11 inches) in diameter, it is at the Kunsthistorisches Museum (Museum of Art History), Vienna, Austria.. 
Personnage Gothique, Oiseau-Eclair. Author Name: Joan Miró. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . Personnage Gothique, Oiseau-Eclair is a bronze sculpture by Joan Miró.It was created in 1974, and cast in 1977. It is in the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden, Washington, USA.. Personnage Gothique, Oiseau-Eclair is a bronze sculpture by Joan Miró. It was created in 1974, and cast in 1977. It is in the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden, Washington, USA.. 
Cromwell on his Farm. Author Name: Ford Madox Brown. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pre-Raphaelite_Brotherhood. . Cromwell on his Farm (1874) is a painting by Ford Madox Brown which depicts Oliver Cromwell observing a bonfire on his farm and thinking of a passage in the Book of Psalms: "Lord, how long wilt thy hide thyself - forever? And shall thy wrath burn like fire?" (Psalm 89). The words are inscribed on the painting's frame along with a quotation from one of Cromwell's speeches, in which he describes his life before entering into politics: "living neither in any considerable height, nor yet in obscurity, I did endeavour to discharge the duty of an honest man.". Cromwell on his Farm (1874) is a painting by Ford Madox Brown which depicts Oliver Cromwell observing a bonfire on his farm and thinking of a passage in the Book of Psalms: "Lord, how long wilt thy hide thyself - forever? And shall thy wrath burn like fire?" (Psalm 89). The words are inscribed on the painting's frame along with a quotation from one of Cromwell's speeches, in which he describes his life before entering into politics: "living neither in any considerable height, nor yet in obscurity, I did endeavour to discharge the duty of an honest man.". 
The Marble Steps Leading to the Church of Santa Maria in Aracoeli in Rome. Author Name: Christoffer Wilhelm Eckersberg. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Danish_Golden_Age. . The Marble Steps Leading to the Church of Santa Maria in Aracoeli in Rome is a painting by the Danish painter, C. W. Eckersberg. It was painted in 1814-1816.Choosing a position from below, Eckersberg created a composition of firm vertical and diagonal lines in this painting of a medieval church in Rome. He painted the picture while being outside and carefully recorded the mid-morning sunlight and shadows.. The Marble Steps Leading to the Church of Santa Maria in Aracoeli in Rome is a painting by the Danish painter, C. W. Eckersberg. It was painted in 1814-1816. Choosing a position from below, Eckersberg created a composition of firm vertical and diagonal lines in this painting of a medieval church in Rome. He painted the picture while being outside and carefully recorded the mid-morning sunlight and shadows.. 
She Changes. Author Name: Echelman, Janet. . . She Changes, known locally as anémona (the anemone) is a sculpture designed by artist Janet Echelman for the cities of Porto and Matosinhos, Northern Portugal. The installation consists of three steel poles, cables, a 20-ton steel ring, and a net structure of varying densities and colors. The sculpture is Echelman's first permanent public art installation.. She Changes, known locally as anémona (the anemone) is a sculpture designed by artist Janet Echelman for the cities of Porto and Matosinhos, Northern Portugal. The installation consists of three steel poles, cables, a 20-ton steel ring, and a net structure of varying densities and colors. The sculpture is Echelman's first permanent public art installation.. 
Two Sisters. Author Name: Pierre-Auguste Renoir. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Two Sisters or On the Terrace is an 1881 oil-on-canvas painting by French artist Pierre-Auguste Renoir. The dimensions of the painting are 100.5 cm × 81 cm. The title Two Sisters (French: Les Deux Sœurs) was given to the painting by Renoir, and the title On the Terrace (French: Sur la terrasse) by its first owner Paul Durand-Ruel.In 1880 to 1881, shortly before working on Two Sisters, Renoir worked in this particular location on another well-known painting, Luncheon of the Boating Party.. Two Sisters or On the Terrace is an 1881 oil-on-canvas painting by French artist Pierre-Auguste Renoir. The dimensions of the painting are 100.5 cm × 81 cm. The title Two Sisters (French: Les Deux Sœurs) was given to the painting by Renoir, and the title On the Terrace (French: Sur la terrasse) by its first owner Paul Durand-Ruel. Renoir worked on the painting on the terrace of the Maison Fournaise, a restaurant located on an island in the Seine in Chatou, the western suburb of Paris. The painting depicts a young woman and her younger sister seated outdoors with a small basket containing balls of wool. Over the railings of the terrace one can see shrubbery and foliage with the River Seine behind it. In 1880 to 1881, shortly before working on Two Sisters, Renoir worked in this particular location on another well-known painting, Luncheon of the Boating Party. Jeanne Darlot (1863—1914), a future actress who was 18 years old at the time, was posing as "the elder sister." It is unknown who posed as the "younger sister," but it is stated that the models were not actually related. Renoir began work on the painting in April 1881 and on July 7, 1881, it was bought by the art dealer, Paul Durand-Ruel, for 1,500 francs. The painting was presented for the first time to the public at the 7th Impressionist exhibition in the spring of 1882. In 1883 it was known to be in the collection of Charles Ephrussi, an art collector and a publisher, but in 1892 the painting was returned again to the collection of the Durand-Ruel family. In 1925, the painting was sold to Annie S. Coburn from Chicago for $100,000. After her death in 1932 the painting was bequeathed to the Art Institute of Chicago, where it has remained since 1933.. 
A Street in Brittany. Author Name: Stanhope Forbes. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Newlyn_School. . A Street in Brittany is a painting dated 1881 by the artist Stanhope Forbes.Forbes was born in Dublin in 1857. When his family moved to England he studied at Dulwich College, the Lambeth School of Art and the Royal Academy Schools. In 1880 he went to Paris where he was influenced by the French artist Jules Bastien-Lepage. The following year he went to work in Cancale, a small fishing village near Saint-Malo in Brittany.. A Street in Brittany is a painting dated 1881 by the artist Stanhope Forbes. Forbes was born in Dublin in 1857. When his family moved to England he studied at Dulwich College, the Lambeth School of Art and the Royal Academy Schools. In 1880 he went to Paris where he was influenced by the French artist Jules Bastien-Lepage. The following year he went to work in Cancale, a small fishing village near Saint-Malo in Brittany. A Street in Brittany was Forbes' first "out-of-doors" painting, and it shows Breton women knitting and making nets in a street in Cancale. For the girl in the foreground Forbes used as his model a young girl from the village named Desiree, who insisted on a daily payment. He was anxious about how his picture would be received, partly about the figure in the foreground being out of scale with the rest of the figures, and possibly about the visible brush-work and the picture's overall blue tone. A critic in the Pall Mall Gazette accused him of "seeing nature through blue spectacles". The painting was shown at the Royal Academy Summer Exhibition in 1882 and then at the Liverpool Autumn Exhibition. It was bought by the Walker Art Gallery for £73.50 (£6,000 as of 2016). Forbes later moved to Cornwall where he became a leading figure in the Newlyn School of painters. The painting is in oil on canvas and measures 104.2 centimetres (41 in) by 75.8 centimetres (30 in).. 
Unfolding. Author Name: Heiliger, Bernhard. . . Unfolding is a public art work by artist Bernhard Heiliger located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture has an abstract form; it is installed on the patio.. Unfolding is a public art work by artist Bernhard Heiliger located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture has an abstract form; it is installed on the patio.. 
Subcommittee. Author Name: Tony Cragg. . . Subcommittee is a sculpture by Tony Cragg. Constructed of mild steel in 1991, in an edition of 4, it will rust with the passage of time.The rack of stamps serves as a satiric commentary on committees.It is in the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.. Subcommittee is a sculpture by Tony Cragg. Constructed of mild steel in 1991, in an edition of 4, it will rust with the passage of time. The rack of stamps serves as a satiric commentary on committees. It is in the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.. 
The Vision of the Cross. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Vision of the Cross is a painting made between 1520 and 1524 by assistants of the Italian renaissance artist Raphael. After the master's death in 1520, Gianfrancesco Penni, Giulio Romano and Raffaellino del Colle from Raphael's workshop worked together to finish the commission to decorate with frescoes the rooms that are now known as the Stanze di Raffaello, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican.. The Vision of the Cross is a painting made between 1520 and 1524 by assistants of the Italian renaissance artist Raphael. After the master's death in 1520, Gianfrancesco Penni, Giulio Romano and Raffaellino del Colle from Raphael's workshop worked together to finish the commission to decorate with frescoes the rooms that are now known as the Stanze di Raffaello, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. The Vision of the Cross is located in the Sala di Costantino ("Hall of Constantine"). In the painting, emperor Constantine I is seen just before the Battle of the Milvian Bridge on October 28, 312. According to legend, a cross appeared to Constantine in the sky, after which as seen in the fresco and following Eusebius of Caesarea Vita Constantini, he adopted the Greek motto "Εν τούτῳ νίκα", i.e. "By this, conquer", a motto that has been rendered in Latin as "In hoc signo vinces", i.e. "In this sign you shall conquer". This Mannerist painting is a crowded and confused melee and melange of images, including a dragon, a dwarf, two popes, and various symbols. Proportions among the soldiers appear confused, with some dwarfed by more distant figures.. 
The Terrace at Saint-Germain, Spring. Author Name: Alfred Sisley. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Terrace at Saint-Germain, Spring is a painting by English Impressionist painter, Alfred Sisley, completed in 1875. It is in The Walters Art Museum collection.. The Terrace at Saint-Germain, Spring is a painting by English Impressionist painter, Alfred Sisley, completed in 1875. It is in The Walters Art Museum collection.. 
Mother and Child. Author Name: Dora Gordine. . . Mother and Child is a public artwork by Russian-British artist Dora Gordine, located at the Indianapolis Museum of Art (IMA), which is near downtown Indianapolis, Indiana. The cast bronze artwork was created in 1964 and portrays a woman kneeling beside a small child, both figures displaying joyful poses and expressions.. Mother and Child is a public artwork by Russian-British artist Dora Gordine, located at the Indianapolis Museum of Art (IMA), which is near downtown Indianapolis, Indiana. The cast bronze artwork was created in 1964 and portrays a woman kneeling beside a small child, both figures displaying joyful poses and expressions.. 
Annunciation. Author Name: Leonardo da Vinci. . . Annunciation, by the Italian Renaissance artists Leonardo da Vinci and Andrea del Verrocchio, dates from circa 1472–1475 and is housed in the Uffizi gallery of Florence, Italy.The subject matter is drawn from Luke 1.26-39 and depicts the angel Gabriel, sent by God to announce to a virgin, Mary, that she would miraculously conceive and give birth to a son, to be named Jesus, and to be called "the Son of God" whose reign would never end. The subject was very popular for artworks and had been depicted many times in the art of Florence, including several examples by the Early Renaissance painter Fra Angelico. The details of its commission and its early history remain obscure.. Annunciation, by the Italian Renaissance artists Leonardo da Vinci and Andrea del Verrocchio, dates from circa 1472–1475 and is housed in the Uffizi gallery of Florence, Italy. The subject matter is drawn from Luke 1.26-39 and depicts the angel Gabriel, sent by God to announce to a virgin, Mary, that she would miraculously conceive and give birth to a son, to be named Jesus, and to be called "the Son of God" whose reign would never end. The subject was very popular for artworks and had been depicted many times in the art of Florence, including several examples by the Early Renaissance painter Fra Angelico. The details of its commission and its early history remain obscure. In 1867, following Gustav Waagen methods, Baron Liphart identified this Annunciation, newly arrived in the Uffizi Gallery from a convent near Florence, as by the young Leonardo, still working in the studio of his master Verrocchio. The painting has since been attributed to different artists, including Leonardo and Verrocchio's contemporary Domenico Ghirlandaio. It was more recently determined to be a collaboration between Leonardo and his master Verrocchio, with whom Leonardo collaborated on the Baptism of Jesus.[citation needed]. 
Il Canal Grande e la chiesa di Santa Maria della Salute. Author Name: Canaletto. . . The Grand Canal at the Salute Church (Italian: Il Canal Grande e la chiesa di Santa Maria della Salute) is an oil on canvas painting by Canaletto. It is a Rococo landscape painting, and was completed in 1730. It measures 151 by 121 centimeters and is currently housed in a private collection.. The Grand Canal at the Salute Church (Italian: Il Canal Grande e la chiesa di Santa Maria della Salute) is an oil on canvas painting by Canaletto. It is a Rococo landscape painting, and was completed in 1730. It measures 151 by 121 centimeters and is currently housed in a private collection.. 
The Baptism of the Eunuch. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Baptism of the Eunuch is a 1626 painting by the Dutch artist Rembrandt van Rijn, owned by the Museum Catharijneconvent in Utrecht since 1976. It shows Philip the Evangelist baptising an Ethiopian man, a eunuch, on the road from Jerusalem to Gaza, traditionally marking the start of the Ethiopian Church (Acts 8:26-39).. The Baptism of the Eunuch is a 1626 painting by the Dutch artist Rembrandt van Rijn, owned by the Museum Catharijneconvent in Utrecht since 1976. It shows Philip the Evangelist baptising an Ethiopian man, a eunuch, on the road from Jerusalem to Gaza, traditionally marking the start of the Ethiopian Church (Acts 8:26-39).. 
At the Moulin Rouge. Author Name: Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Art_Nouveau. . At the Moulin Rouge (French: Au Moulin Rouge) is an oil-on-canvas painting by French artist Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec. It was painted between 1892 and 1895. It is one of a number of works by Toulouse-Lautrec depicting the Moulin Rouge cabaret built in Paris in 1889; the others include At the Moulin Rouge, The Dance and the poster Moulin Rouge: La Goulue.. At the Moulin Rouge (French: Au Moulin Rouge) is an oil-on-canvas painting by French artist Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec. It was painted between 1892 and 1895. It is one of a number of works by Toulouse-Lautrec depicting the Moulin Rouge cabaret built in Paris in 1889; the others include At the Moulin Rouge, The Dance and the poster Moulin Rouge: La Goulue. The painting portrays a group of three men and two women sitting around a table. From right to left, the people at the table are: Édouard Dujardin, dancer La Macarona, photographer Paul Secau, and photographer Maurice Guibert. The woman in the right foreground is English dancer May Milton. In the background, on the right, you can see La Goulue with a partner; the left background shows Toulouse-Lautrec himself and Gabriel Tapié de Céleyran. At the Moulin Rouge is under ownership of the Art Institute of Chicago as part of the Helen Birch Bartlett Memorial Collection, where it was first displayed on December 23, 1930. It was exhibited in London in 2011 at the Courtauld Institute of Art. It is currently on display in the Art Institute of Chicago as part of the permanent collection.. 
The Kiss. Author Name: Edvard Munch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Expressionism. . The Kiss is an oil painting on canvas completed by the Norwegian symbolist artist Edvard Munch in 1897. Part of his Frieze of Life, which depicts the stages of a relationship between men and women, The Kiss is a realization of a motif with which he had experimented since 1888/89: a couple kissing, their faces fusing as one in a symbolic representation of their unity. Exhibited as early as 1903, this work is held at the Munch Museum in Oslo.. The Kiss is an oil painting on canvas completed by the Norwegian symbolist artist Edvard Munch in 1897. Part of his Frieze of Life, which depicts the stages of a relationship between men and women, The Kiss is a realization of a motif with which he had experimented since 1888/89: a couple kissing, their faces fusing as one in a symbolic representation of their unity. Exhibited as early as 1903, this work is held at the Munch Museum in Oslo.. 
Portrait of Giuliano de' Medici. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Giuliano de' Medici is a painting of Giuliano de' Medici (1453-1478) by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli, probably painted soon before Giuliano was assassinated in the Pazzi Conspiracy in 1478. It belongs to the Berlin State Museums, and is in the Gemäldegalerie, Berlin.It is believed to be the earliest of a number of versions by Botticelli and his workshop.. The Portrait of Giuliano de' Medici is a painting of Giuliano de' Medici (1453-1478) by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli, probably painted soon before Giuliano was assassinated in the Pazzi Conspiracy in 1478. It belongs to the Berlin State Museums, and is in the Gemäldegalerie, Berlin. It is believed to be the earliest of a number of versions by Botticelli and his workshop.. 
Rough Sea at a Jetty. Author Name: Jacob van Ruisdael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_Golden_Age_painting. . Rough Sea at a Jetty (c. 1650s) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch landscape painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Kimbell Art Museum.This scene is very similar to other paintings Ruisdael made in this period and these often served as inspiration for later painters of seascape.. Rough Sea at a Jetty (c. 1650s) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch landscape painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Kimbell Art Museum. This painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1911, who wrote; "945. A ROUGH SEA, Sm. 2. A storm is coming on. In the centre foreground the waves dash on two jetties. Near a beacon at the end of one jetty, two men with long poles wait to help a fishing-boat which is running under full sail for the harbour. Two other boats ride at anchor near the jetty, to the right. Dark cloudy sky. A " magnificent picture " (Sm.). Canvas, 37 inches by 51 inches. Another example, equally genuine, was in the possession of the London dealers Agnew. Exhibited at the Royal Academy Winter Exhibition, London, 1884, No. 191. Sales. Antony Sijdervelt, Amsterdam, April 23, 1766 (Terw. 519), No. 49 (250 florins, Loquet). Gerard Braamcamp, Amsterdam, July 31, 1771, No. 198 (264 florins, P. Fouquet). Paillet, Paris, July 19, 1802 (1460 francs). Bought privately by Sm. from the family of the Marquis Merialva, 1824 (for 9000 francs), and sold to the Earl of Liverpool (for £500). Sale. Earl of Liverpool, London, March 25, 1829 (£535 Lord Lansdowne). In the collection of the Marquess of Lansdowne, Bowood." This scene is very similar to other paintings Ruisdael made in this period and these often served as inspiration for later painters of seascape.. 
Portrait de l’éditeur Eugène Figuière. Author Name: Albert Gleizes. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_art. . Portrait de l’éditeur Eugène Figuière, also referred to as The Publisher Eugene Figuiere (Portrait de Figuière, L'Editeur Eugène Figuière, Portrait d'un Editeur, Portrait d'Eugène Figuière or Portrait of the Publisher Eugene Figuiere), is a painting created in 1913 by the artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes. This work was exhibited at the Salon d'Automne, 1913 (no. 768) and Moderni Umeni, 45th Exhibition of SVU Mánes in Prague 1914 (no. 47), and several major exhibitions the following years. Executed in a highly Cubist idiom, the work nevertheless retains recognizable elements relative to its subject matter. The painting represents Eugène Figuière. Head of his own publishing company, Figuière strove to be identified with every modern development. In 1912 he published the first and o. Portrait de l’éditeur Eugène Figuière, also referred to as The Publisher Eugene Figuiere (Portrait de Figuière, L'Editeur Eugène Figuière, Portrait d'un Editeur, Portrait d'Eugène Figuière or Portrait of the Publisher Eugene Figuiere), is a painting created in 1913 by the artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes. This work was exhibited at the Salon d'Automne, 1913 (no. 768) and Moderni Umeni, 45th Exhibition of SVU Mánes in Prague 1914 (no. 47), and several major exhibitions the following years. Executed in a highly Cubist idiom, the work nevertheless retains recognizable elements relative to its subject matter. The painting represents Eugène Figuière. Head of his own publishing company, Figuière strove to be identified with every modern development. In 1912 he published the first and only manifesto on Cubism entitled Du "Cubisme", written by Albert Gleizes and Jean Metzinger. In 1913 Figuière published Les Peintres Cubistes, Méditations Esthétiques (The Cubist Painters, Aesthetic Meditations), by Guillaume Apollinaire. The painting, purchased directly from the artist in 1948, is in the permanent collection of the Musée des beaux-arts de Lyon, France.. 
Fruit and a Jug on a Table. Author Name: Jean Metzinger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Fruit and a Jug on a Table (also titled Melon et compotier) is a Cubist painting created in 1916 by the French artist and theorist Jean Metzinger. In 1919 the painting was exhibited in Paris at Léonce Rosenberg's, Galerie de l'Effort Moderne. The painting was reproduced in the June 1924 (n. 6) issue of Bulletin de l'Effort Moderne. The work is on view at Charlotte F. and Irving W. Rabb Gallery (Europe, 1900–1960, Modernism), Museum of Fine Arts, Boston.. Fruit and a Jug on a Table (also titled Melon et compotier) is a Cubist painting created in 1916 by the French artist and theorist Jean Metzinger. In 1919 the painting was exhibited in Paris at Léonce Rosenberg's, Galerie de l'Effort Moderne. The painting was reproduced in the June 1924 (n. 6) issue of Bulletin de l'Effort Moderne. The work is on view at Charlotte F. and Irving W. Rabb Gallery (Europe, 1900–1960, Modernism), Museum of Fine Arts, Boston.. 
The Dance Class. Author Name: Edgar Degas. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Dance Class is a 1874 painting by Edgar Degas. It is in the collection of the Metropolitan Museum of Art.. The Dance Class is a 1874 painting by Edgar Degas. It is in the collection of the Metropolitan Museum of Art.. 
The Massacre at Chios. Author Name: Eugène Delacroix. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . The Massacre at Chios (French: Scène des massacres de Scio) is the second major oil painting by the French artist Eugène Delacroix. The work is more than four meters tall, and shows some of the horror of the wartime destruction visited on the Island of Chios. A frieze-like display of suffering characters, military might, ornate and colourful costumes, terror, disease and death is shown in front of a scene of widespread desolation.. The Massacre at Chios (French: Scène des massacres de Scio) is the second major oil painting by the French artist Eugène Delacroix. The work is more than four meters tall, and shows some of the horror of the wartime destruction visited on the Island of Chios. A frieze-like display of suffering characters, military might, ornate and colourful costumes, terror, disease and death is shown in front of a scene of widespread desolation. Unusually for a painting of civil ruin during this period, The Massacre at Chios has no heroic figure to counterbalance the crushed victims, and there is little to suggest hope among the ruin and despair. The vigour with which the aggressor is painted, contrasted with the dismal rendition of the victims has drawn comment since the work was first hung, and some critics have charged that Delacroix might have tried to show some sympathy with the brutal occupiers. The painting was completed and displayed at the Salon of 1824 and presently hangs at the Musée du Louvre in Paris.. 
Unfinished portrait of General Bonaparte. Author Name: Jacques-Louis David. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . The unfinished portrait of General Bonaparte (also titled Le Général Bonaparte) is an unfinished portrait of Napoleon Bonaparte by Jacques-Louis David. He began it in 1798, painting its subject from life, and it was to represent Bonaparte at the Battle of Rivoli, holding the Treaty of Campo Formio in his hand, but it was never completed. Vivant Denon cut down the canvas to preserve only the painted part of the face and bust. It is on display at the Louvre.. The unfinished portrait of General Bonaparte (also titled Le Général Bonaparte) is an unfinished portrait of Napoleon Bonaparte by Jacques-Louis David. He began it in 1798, painting its subject from life, and it was to represent Bonaparte at the Battle of Rivoli, holding the Treaty of Campo Formio in his hand, but it was never completed. Vivant Denon cut down the canvas to preserve only the painted part of the face and bust. It is on display at the Louvre.. 
Office at Night. Author Name: Edward Hopper. . . Office at Night is a 1940 oil-on-canvas painting by the American realist painter Edward Hopper. It is currently owned by the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis, Minnesota, which purchased it in 1948.The painting depicts an office occupied by an attractive young woman in a short-sleeved blue dress who is standing at an open file cabinet, and a slightly older man who is perhaps in early middle age. He is dressed in a three-piece suit and is seated behind a desk. The nature of the office is unclear—it could just as easily be the office of a lawyer, an accountant or of a small business.. Office at Night is a 1940 oil-on-canvas painting by the American realist painter Edward Hopper. It is currently owned by the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis, Minnesota, which purchased it in 1948. The painting depicts an office occupied by an attractive young woman in a short-sleeved blue dress who is standing at an open file cabinet, and a slightly older man who is perhaps in early middle age. He is dressed in a three-piece suit and is seated behind a desk. The nature of the office is unclear—it could just as easily be the office of a lawyer, an accountant or of a small business.. 
Bacchus. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Bacchus (1496–1497) is a marble sculpture by the Italian High Renaissance sculptor, painter, architect and poet Michelangelo. The statue is somewhat over life-size and depicts Bacchus, the Roman god of wine, in a reeling pose suggestive of drunkenness. Commissioned by Raffaele Riario, a high-ranking Cardinal and collector of antique sculpture, it was rejected by him and was bought instead by Jacopo Galli, Riario’s banker and a friend to Michelangelo. Along with the Pietà the Bacchus is one of only two surviving sculptures from the artist's first period in Rome.. Bacchus (1496–1497) is a marble sculpture by the Italian High Renaissance sculptor, painter, architect and poet Michelangelo. The statue is somewhat over life-size and depicts Bacchus, the Roman god of wine, in a reeling pose suggestive of drunkenness. Commissioned by Raffaele Riario, a high-ranking Cardinal and collector of antique sculpture, it was rejected by him and was bought instead by Jacopo Galli, Riario’s banker and a friend to Michelangelo. Along with the Pietà the Bacchus is one of only two surviving sculptures from the artist's first period in Rome. Bacchus is depicted with rolling eyes, his staggering body almost teetering off the rocky outcrop on which he stands. Sitting behind him is a faun, who eats the bunch of grapes slipping out of Bacchus's left hand. With its swollen breast and abdomen, the Bacchus figure suggested to Giorgio Vasari "both the slenderness of a young man and the fleshiness and roundness of a woman", and its androgynous quality has often been noted (although the testicles are swollen as well). The inspiration for the work appears to be the description in Pliny the Elder's Natural History of a lost bronze sculpture by Praxiteles, depicting "Bacchus, Drunkenness and a satyr". The sense of precariousness resulting from a high centre of gravity can be found in a number of later works by the artist, most notably the David and the figures on the Sistine Chapel ceiling. Bacchus wears a wreath of ivy leaves, as that plant was sacred to the god. (They are not, as is often supposed, vine leaves.) In his right hand he holds a goblet of wine and in his left the skin of a tiger, an animal associated with the god "for its love of the grape" (according to Michelangelo's biographer Ascanio Condivi). The hand holding the goblet was broken off and the penis chiseled away before Maarten van Heemskerck saw the sculpture in the 1530s. Only the goblet was restored, in the early 1550s. The mutilation may have been to give the sculpture an illusion of greater antiquity, placed as it initially was among an antique torso and fragmentary Roman reliefs in Jacopo Galli's Roman garden. Such a concession to 'classical' sensibilities did not, however, convince Percy Bysshe Shelley of the work's fidelity to "the spirit and meaning of Bacchus". He wrote that "It looks drunken, brutal, and narrow-minded, and has an expression of dissoluteness the most revolting." The art historian Johannes Wilde summarised responses to the sculpture thus: "in brief... it is not the image of a god". The statue was commissioned for the garden of Cardinal Raffaele Riario who intended for it to complement his collection of classical sculptures. It was rejected by Cardinal Riario and by 1506 found its way to the collection of Jacopo Galli, banker to both the cardinal and Michelangelo, who had a similar garden near the Palazzo della Cancelleria. There it first appeared in a drawing by Maarten van Heemskerck, c. 1533-36. The statue was bought for the Medici and transferred to Florence in 1572.. 
Immigrant Mother. Author Name: Ivan Meštrović. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Art_Nouveau. . Immigrant Mother is a public artwork by Croatian artist Ivan Meštrović located in Cathedral Square Park in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States. The bronze sculpture sits on a red granite base and depicts a mother with her children.. Immigrant Mother is a public artwork by Croatian artist Ivan Meštrović located in Cathedral Square Park in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States. The bronze sculpture sits on a red granite base and depicts a mother with her children.. 
The Elephant Celebes. Author Name: Max Ernst. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dada. . The Elephant Celebes (or Celebes) is a 1921 painting by the German Dadaist and surrealist Max Ernst. It is among the most famous of Ernst's early surrealist works and "undoubtedly the first masterpiece of Surrealist painting in the De Chirico tradition." It combines the vivid dreamlike atmosphere of Surrealism with the collage aspects of Dada.. The Elephant Celebes (or Celebes) is a 1921 painting by the German Dadaist and surrealist Max Ernst. It is among the most famous of Ernst's early surrealist works and "undoubtedly the first masterpiece of Surrealist painting in the De Chirico tradition." It combines the vivid dreamlike atmosphere of Surrealism with the collage aspects of Dada.. 
The Bookworm. Author Name: Carl Spitzweg. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Biedermeier. . The Bookworm (German: Der Bücherwurm) is an 1850 oil-on-canvas painting by the German painter and poet Carl Spitzweg. The picture is typical of Spitzweg's humorous, anecdotal style and it is characteristic of Biedermeier art in general. The painting is representative of the introspective and conservative mood in Europe during the period between the end of the Napoleonic Wars and the revolutions of 1848, but at the same time pokes fun at those attitudes by embodying them in the fusty old scholar unconcerned with the affairs of the mundane world.. The Bookworm (German: Der Bücherwurm) is an 1850 oil-on-canvas painting by the German painter and poet Carl Spitzweg. The picture is typical of Spitzweg's humorous, anecdotal style and it is characteristic of Biedermeier art in general. The painting is representative of the introspective and conservative mood in Europe during the period between the end of the Napoleonic Wars and the revolutions of 1848, but at the same time pokes fun at those attitudes by embodying them in the fusty old scholar unconcerned with the affairs of the mundane world.. 
Doshan Tappeh Street. Author Name: Kamal-ol-Molk. . . The Doshan Tappeh Street is a painting by the Iranian realism painter Kamal-ol-molk with oil on cotton duck. It was painted in 1899 and features ex-street Doshan Tappeh in Tehran. A lady in Qajar-fashion is walking in the middle of work, along the street.. The Doshan Tappeh Street is a painting by the Iranian realism painter Kamal-ol-molk with oil on cotton duck. It was painted in 1899 and features ex-street Doshan Tappeh in Tehran. A lady in Qajar-fashion is walking in the middle of work, along the street.. 
Monna Rosa. Author Name: Dante Gabriel Rossetti. . . Monna Rosa is the title of two oil paintings by Dante Gabriel Rossetti, both of Frances Leyland, the wife of shipping magnate Frederick Richards Leyland. The earlier and smaller painting was completed in 1862 and its whereabouts is now unknown. The second was completed in 1867 and is now in a private collection.Frederick Leyland displayed the larger painting in his drawing room with five other Rossetti "stunners.". Monna Rosa is the title of two oil paintings by Dante Gabriel Rossetti, both of Frances Leyland, the wife of shipping magnate Frederick Richards Leyland. The earlier and smaller painting was completed in 1862 and its whereabouts is now unknown. The second was completed in 1867 and is now in a private collection. Frederick Leyland displayed the larger painting in his drawing room with five other Rossetti "stunners.". 
Circe Invidiosa. Author Name: John William Waterhouse. . . Circe Invidiosa is a painting by John William Waterhouse completed in 1892. It is his second depiction, after Circe Offering the Cup to Ulysses (1891), of the Greek mythological character, Circe, this time while she is poisoning the water to turn Scylla, Circe's rival for Glaucus, "into a hideous monster". Anthony Hobson describes the painting as being "invested with an aura of menace, which has much to do with the powerful colour scheme of deep greens and blues [Waterhouse] employed so well". Those colours are "near stained glass or jewels", according to Gleeson White. Judith Yarnall also echoes the sentiment about the colours, and mentions an "integrity of line" in the painting. She says that taken as a pair, Waterhouse's Circes prompt the question: "is she goddess or woman?". Circe Invidiosa is a painting by John William Waterhouse completed in 1892. It is his second depiction, after Circe Offering the Cup to Ulysses (1891), of the Greek mythological character, Circe, this time while she is poisoning the water to turn Scylla, Circe's rival for Glaucus, "into a hideous monster". Anthony Hobson describes the painting as being "invested with an aura of menace, which has much to do with the powerful colour scheme of deep greens and blues [Waterhouse] employed so well". Those colours are "near stained glass or jewels", according to Gleeson White. Judith Yarnall also echoes the sentiment about the colours, and mentions an "integrity of line" in the painting. She says that taken as a pair, Waterhouse's Circes prompt the question: "is she goddess or woman?" Circe Invidiosa is part of the collection of the Art Gallery of South Australia, which also owns Waterhouse's The Favourites of the Emperor Honorius. Waterhouse later returned to the subject of Circe a third time with The Sorceress (c. 1911).. 
Annunciation. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Annunciation is a painting created by Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli. It is a tempera on panel and measures 49.5 cm tall and 58.5 cm wide. It is in the Kelvingrove Art Gallery and Museum in Glasgow, Scotland.Its date is not certain though a majority of the critics consider it early, noticing certain elements reminiscent of Verrocchio. Van Marle, however, dates it circa 1490.On the lower part there is a note that indicates that it came from the Florentine Church of Saint Barnabas.. The Annunciation is a painting created by Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli. It is a tempera on panel and measures 49.5 cm tall and 58.5 cm wide. It is in the Kelvingrove Art Gallery and Museum in Glasgow, Scotland. Its date is not certain though a majority of the critics consider it early, noticing certain elements reminiscent of Verrocchio. Van Marle, however, dates it circa 1490. On the lower part there is a note that indicates that it came from the Florentine Church of Saint Barnabas. The atmosphere is achieved through the succession of columns and sections of flooring that serve to demonstrate the perspective. The solemn architecture overlooks the figures.. 
The Miracle of the Holy Fire. Author Name: William Holman Hunt. . . The Miracle of the Holy Fire (1892–99) is a painting by William Holman Hunt which depicts the Greek Orthodox rite of the Holy Fire in the Church of the Holy Sepulchre Jerusalem. Hunt believed the fire to be a pious fraud which brought Christianity into disrepute. He intended the painting to be a satire in the manner of William Hogarth. Hunt published an elaborate keyplate explaining the identity of the various characters depicted.. The Miracle of the Holy Fire (1892–99) is a painting by William Holman Hunt which depicts the Greek Orthodox rite of the Holy Fire in the Church of the Holy Sepulchre Jerusalem. Hunt believed the fire to be a pious fraud which brought Christianity into disrepute. He intended the painting to be a satire in the manner of William Hogarth. Hunt published an elaborate keyplate explaining the identity of the various characters depicted.. 
Valle Romita Polyptych. Author Name: Gentile da Fabriano. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/International_Gothic. . The Valle Romita Polyptych (Italian: Polittico di Valle Romita) is a painting by the Italian late Gothic painter Gentile da Fabriano, dating from c. 1410-1412 and now housed in the Pinacoteca di Brera in Milan. It was originally executed for the Franciscan hermitage of Valle Romita near Gentile's birthplace, Fabriano.. The Valle Romita Polyptych (Italian: Polittico di Valle Romita) is a painting by the Italian late Gothic painter Gentile da Fabriano, dating from c. 1410-1412 and now housed in the Pinacoteca di Brera in Milan. It was originally executed for the Franciscan hermitage of Valle Romita near Gentile's birthplace, Fabriano.. 
Houses at l'Estaque. Author Name: Georges Braque. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Houses at l'Estaque (French: Maisons à l'Estaque) is a 1908 oil painting by Georges Braque. It is considered either an important Proto-Cubist landscape or the first Cubist landscape. The painting prompted art critic Louis Vauxcelles to mock it as being composed of cubes which led to the name of the movement.It is a response to works by Paul Cézanne who also lived in L'Estaque at times.. Houses at l'Estaque (French: Maisons à l'Estaque) is a 1908 oil painting by Georges Braque. It is considered either an important Proto-Cubist landscape or the first Cubist landscape. The painting prompted art critic Louis Vauxcelles to mock it as being composed of cubes which led to the name of the movement. It is a response to works by Paul Cézanne who also lived in L'Estaque at times.. 
Roskilde Jars. Author Name: Brandes, Peter. . . The Roskilde Jars (Danish: Roskildekrukkerne) stand on the square outside the railway station in Roskilde on the Danish island of Zealand. The three huge jars are 5 m (16 ft) in height and together weigh about 24 tons.The jars are the work of the Danish abstract sculptor Peter Brandes (born 1944). They were commissioned by Elsebeth Stryhn of Stryhns Leverpostej, a local meat paste company, and presented to the city in 1998 on the occasion of Roskilde's 1,000th anniversary.. The Roskilde Jars (Danish: Roskildekrukkerne) stand on the square outside the railway station in Roskilde on the Danish island of Zealand. The three huge jars are 5 m (16 ft) in height and together weigh about 24 tons. The jars are the work of the Danish abstract sculptor Peter Brandes (born 1944). They were commissioned by Elsebeth Stryhn of Stryhns Leverpostej, a local meat paste company, and presented to the city in 1998 on the occasion of Roskilde's 1,000th anniversary. The jars stand in a shallow basin of water, in which they are reflected. The one closest to the station is inscribed with extracts from Henrik Norbrandt's poem Junker Kristoffer, a local hero buried in Roskilde Cathedral in 1363. The colourful glazed jars (two in tones of blue, the third in bronze) are reminiscent of Ancient Greek amphoras. They have accounted for several world records in pottery manufacture. Consisting of several hundred sections fired up to 1,300 C at the Tommerup ceramics factory on the island of Funen, they were assembled by two men who stacked the sections on top of each other.. 
Cahill Expressway. Author Name: Jeffrey Smart. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Precisionism. . Cahill Expressway is a 1962 painting by the Australian artist Jeffrey Smart. The painting depicts the Cahill Expressway, a motorway in inner Sydney. It is "considered by many to be one of his finest works" and "perhaps his best-known picture". The work has been described as "startling ... for its recognisability as an Sydney scene and doubly so for its timeless quality."The fat, bald man features in many of Smart's paintings. Along with a range of other solitary figures depicted in Smart's work, he is "often interpreted as the embodiment of modern alienation.". Cahill Expressway is a 1962 painting by the Australian artist Jeffrey Smart. The painting depicts the Cahill Expressway, a motorway in inner Sydney. It is "considered by many to be one of his finest works" and "perhaps his best-known picture". The work has been described as "startling ... for its recognisability as an Sydney scene and doubly so for its timeless quality." The Woolloomooloo extension of the Cahill Expressway was opened in March 1962, the same year as Smart's painting. The painting shows a view looking into the newly constructed tunnel under the Domain with the State Library on the left and the Shakespeare Memorial just above. Smart said "The start of the compositional form of Cahill Expressway was the driveway, the sweep, the lovely shapes, the image of something [the tunnel] going underground and the city continuing above the ground. The figure is not the reason for the composition at all - he ends up there almost as an afterthought. ... I gave the fat man only one arm here, and his other sleeve is tucked neatly into his pocket, as a purely compositional thing." The fat, bald man features in many of Smart's paintings. Along with a range of other solitary figures depicted in Smart's work, he is "often interpreted as the embodiment of modern alienation." Resisting any interpretation or meaning behind the bald man's presence, Smart insisted that he was there to provide a sense of scale. As including people in his paintings could overly draw viewers' eyes, Smart attempted not to "make them too interesting; they are never beautiful or sexy" and he stated "a bald head makes a lovely volume and gives me a highlight.". Smart often mocked the idea of looking for meaning in his works: "That's what happens if you try to look too much into a picture ... You can't explain pictures." The painting appeared on the cover of an edition of Peter Carey's collection of short stories, The Fat Man in History (1974). It also inspired a 1989 collection of short stories titled Cahill Expressway with the sub-title "twenty-nine Australian writers respond to Helen Daniel's invitation: stories based on Jeffrey Smart's painting Cahill Expressway". The painting was acquired by the National Gallery of Victoria in 1963 and is part of its Australian art collection.. 
The Disrobing of Christ. Author Name: El Greco. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . The Disrobing of Christ or El Expolio (Latin: Exspolĭum) is a painting begun in the summer of 1577 and completed in the spring of 1579 for the High Altar of the sacristy of the Cathedral of Toledo, where it still normally hangs. In late 2013 it was on temporary display at the Prado in Madrid (with the other El Grecos), following a period of cleaning and conservation work there; it was returned to Toledo in 2014. It is one of El Greco's most famous works. A document dated July 2, 1577 which refers to this painting is the earliest record of El Greco's presence in Spain. The commission for the painting was secured thanks to El Greco's friendship from Rome with Luis, the son of Diego de Castilla, the dean of the Cathedral of Toledo. De Castilla senior also arranged El Greco's other major commi. The Disrobing of Christ or El Expolio (Latin: Exspolĭum) is a painting begun in the summer of 1577 and completed in the spring of 1579 for the High Altar of the sacristy of the Cathedral of Toledo, where it still normally hangs. In late 2013 it was on temporary display at the Prado in Madrid (with the other El Grecos), following a period of cleaning and conservation work there; it was returned to Toledo in 2014. It is one of El Greco's most famous works. A document dated July 2, 1577 which refers to this painting is the earliest record of El Greco's presence in Spain. The commission for the painting was secured thanks to El Greco's friendship from Rome with Luis, the son of Diego de Castilla, the dean of the Cathedral of Toledo. De Castilla senior also arranged El Greco's other major commission, on which he worked simultaneously, the paintings for the Toledan church of Santo Domingo el Antiguo.. 
Nine Dragons. Author Name: Chen Rong. . . Nine Dragons is a handscroll painting by Chinese artist Chen Rong from 1244. Depicting the apparitions of dragons soaring amidst clouds, mists, whirlpools, rocky mountains and fire, the painting refers to the dynamic forces of nature in Daoism. The depicted dragons are associated with nine sons of the Dragon King, while the number nine itself is considered auspicious in Chinese astrology and folk beliefs.. Nine Dragons is a handscroll painting by Chinese artist Chen Rong from 1244. Depicting the apparitions of dragons soaring amidst clouds, mists, whirlpools, rocky mountains and fire, the painting refers to the dynamic forces of nature in Daoism. The depicted dragons are associated with nine sons of the Dragon King, while the number nine itself is considered auspicious in Chinese astrology and folk beliefs. The painting, containing multiple inscriptions and stamps, begins on the right side and ends on the left. The left side features various colophons, including those by Zhang Sicheng and Dong Sixue, a Song dynasty official. Two inscriptions on the painting were made by the artist's own hand. The dating is based on one of them. According to the inscription placed at the end of the painting, the work was inspired by two other paintings, Cao Ba's Nine Horses and Nine Deers, attributed to Huichong. A later inscription by the Qianlong Emperor says that besides praising Chen Rong’s painting, Qianlong ordered a court painter to make a copy of it. Qianlong also impressed several seals on the original painting, whose text appreciate the work.[clarification needed]. 
Open Eyes. Author Name: Don Gummer. . . Open Eyes is an outdoor sculpture by American artist Don Gummer (born 1946). It is located on the Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis (IUPUI) campus, which is near downtown Indianapolis, Indiana, and is owned by the Eugene and Marilyn Glick Eye Institute. The 16' tall sculpture of cascading circular shapes with a colored glass center, is meant to show the range of colors that the human pupil can interpret.. Open Eyes is an outdoor sculpture by American artist Don Gummer (born 1946). It is located on the Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis (IUPUI) campus, which is near downtown Indianapolis, Indiana, and is owned by the Eugene and Marilyn Glick Eye Institute. The 16' tall sculpture of cascading circular shapes with a colored glass center, is meant to show the range of colors that the human pupil can interpret.. 
Self-portrait. Author Name: Giorgione. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Self-portrait of Giorgione is a 1510 self-portrait by the Italian painter Giorgione. It is held at the Museum of Fine Arts in Budapest, from which it was stolen on 5 November 1983. It was recovered in Operation Budapest.. The Self-portrait of Giorgione is a 1510 self-portrait by the Italian painter Giorgione. It is held at the Museum of Fine Arts in Budapest, from which it was stolen on 5 November 1983. It was recovered in Operation Budapest.. 
Madonna of Palazzo Medici-Riccardi. Author Name: Fra' Filippo Lippi, O.Carm.. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Madonna of Palazzo Medici-Riccardi is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Filippo Lippi. It is housed in the Palazzo Medici-Riccardi of Florence, central Italy.. The Madonna of Palazzo Medici-Riccardi is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Filippo Lippi. It is housed in the Palazzo Medici-Riccardi of Florence, central Italy.. 
Zebra Fish. Author Name: Wayne Chabre. . . Zebra Fish is an outdoor 1989 sculpture by Wayne Chabre, installed at the University of Oregon campus in Eugene, Oregon, in the United States. The hammered copper sheet high-relief measures approximately 3.5 feet (1.1 m) x 3 feet (0.91 m) x 2 feet (0.61 m). It was surveyed and deemed "treatment needed" by the Smithsonian Institution's "Save Outdoor Sculpture!" in March 1993. It is administered by the University of Oregon.. Zebra Fish is an outdoor 1989 sculpture by Wayne Chabre, installed at the University of Oregon campus in Eugene, Oregon, in the United States. The hammered copper sheet high-relief measures approximately 3.5 feet (1.1 m) x 3 feet (0.91 m) x 2 feet (0.61 m). It was surveyed and deemed "treatment needed" by the Smithsonian Institution's "Save Outdoor Sculpture!" in March 1993. It is administered by the University of Oregon.. 
Self-Portrait with Palette. Author Name: Édouard Manet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Self-Portrait with Palette (French: Autoportrait à la palette) is an 1878–79 oil-on-canvas painting by the French artist Édouard Manet. This late impressionistic work is one of his two self-portraits. Velasquez's self-portrait in Las Meninas was a particular inspiration for Manet's painting which despite its allusion to the previous artist's work is very modern in its focus upon the personality of the artist and loose paint handling.A long series of prominent collectors have owned this painting. Most recently, it sold for $29.48 million at Sotheby's on 22 June 2010.. Self-Portrait with Palette (French: Autoportrait à la palette) is an 1878–79 oil-on-canvas painting by the French artist Édouard Manet. This late impressionistic work is one of his two self-portraits. Velasquez's self-portrait in Las Meninas was a particular inspiration for Manet's painting which despite its allusion to the previous artist's work is very modern in its focus upon the personality of the artist and loose paint handling. A long series of prominent collectors have owned this painting. Most recently, it sold for $29.48 million at Sotheby's on 22 June 2010.. 
Odalisque with a Slave. Author Name: Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . Odalisque with a Slave (French: L'Odalisque à l'esclave) is an 1839 orientalist painting by Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres commissioned by Charles Marcotte. The painting is on display at the Fogg Art Museum in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Ingres made a second version (shown at right) in 1842 with the help of two of his students, Paul and Jean-Hippolyte Flandrin, which is at the Walters Art Museum in Baltimore. It differs from the original by the presence of a garden painted by Paul Flandrin, inspired by the park at the Château de Dampierre.. Odalisque with a Slave (French: L'Odalisque à l'esclave) is an 1839 orientalist painting by Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres commissioned by Charles Marcotte. The painting is on display at the Fogg Art Museum in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Ingres made a second version (shown at right) in 1842 with the help of two of his students, Paul and Jean-Hippolyte Flandrin, which is at the Walters Art Museum in Baltimore. It differs from the original by the presence of a garden painted by Paul Flandrin, inspired by the park at the Château de Dampierre. The work is a classic piece of Orientalism in French painting.. 
View on the Amstel from Amsteldijk. Author Name: Jacob van Ruisdael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_Golden_Age_painting. . View on the Amstel from Amsteldijk (c. 1680) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch landscape painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Amsterdam Museum.According to Vereniging Rembrandt, the steeples in this painting are from left to right: Leidsepoort, Utrechtsepoort, Westerkerk, Stadhuis (Dam), Oude Kerk, Zuiderkerk, Portugees-Joodse Synagoge, 's Lands zeemagazijn, Weesperpoort, Oosterkerk. All of these buildings had been recently designed and built under the supervision of the city architect Daniël Stalpaert.. View on the Amstel from Amsteldijk (c. 1680) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch landscape painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Amsterdam Museum. This painting was purchased in 2007 with support from the Vereniging Rembrandt as an important artifact of Amsterdam history. It was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1911, who wrote; "17. View of Amsterdam. The Amstel fills the right-hand side of the picture. In the centre is a canal bordered by a meadow. A ray of light illumines the town. In the sky are masses of storm-cloud. Canvas. Sale. Comte de Morny, Paris, May 24, 1852, No. 24 (3100 francs)." According to Vereniging Rembrandt, the steeples in this painting are from left to right: Leidsepoort, Utrechtsepoort, Westerkerk, Stadhuis (Dam), Oude Kerk, Zuiderkerk, Portugees-Joodse Synagoge, 's Lands zeemagazijn, Weesperpoort, Oosterkerk. All of these buildings had been recently designed and built under the supervision of the city architect Daniël Stalpaert. This scene is very similar to other paintings Ruisdael made in this period of Amsterdam and these often served as inspiration for later painters of landscape.. 
Le Zouave. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . The Zouave is the subject of two paintings made by Vincent van Gogh in Arles.Van Gogh was excited to have a model for a portrait, and painted two of the Zouave soldier in June 1888. Van Gogh described him as a boy, though he is portrayed as older, with a small face, large neck and intense eyes. A half-length portrait, Le Zouave (half-figure), was made of the tanned man with bright colors he called a "savage combination of incongruous tones". The Zouave's uniform was blue with red-orange braids, a red cap and two yellow stars on his chest, all placed against the background of a green door and orange bricks.. The Zouave is the subject of two paintings made by Vincent van Gogh in Arles. Van Gogh was excited to have a model for a portrait, and painted two of the Zouave soldier in June 1888. Van Gogh described him as a boy, though he is portrayed as older, with a small face, large neck and intense eyes. A half-length portrait, Le Zouave (half-figure), was made of the tanned man with bright colors he called a "savage combination of incongruous tones". The Zouave's uniform was blue with red-orange braids, a red cap and two yellow stars on his chest, all placed against the background of a green door and orange bricks. Van Gogh was unsatisfied with the painting, he described it as "ugly and unsuccessful", but thought the challenge might expand his artistic range. He made a further drawing, with which he was not particularly pleased, and a painting Le Zouave of the soldier against a white wall.. 
Russian Winter. Hoarfrost. Author Name: Nikolai Efimovich Timkov. . Author Movement: Realism. . Russian Winter. Hoarfrost (Russian: Русская зима. Иней) is a painting by the Russian artist Nikolai Timkov (1912-1993) made in 1969. It depicts a winter view of Tver land, a picturesque corner near the Academic Dacha.. Russian Winter. Hoarfrost (Russian: Русская зима. Иней) is a painting by the Russian artist Nikolai Timkov (1912-1993) made in 1969. It depicts a winter view of Tver land, a picturesque corner near the Academic Dacha.. 
Walking to Church. Author Name: Norman Rockwell. . . Walking to Church is a 1952 painting by the American painter Norman Rockwell, painted for the cover of The Saturday Evening Post's April 4, 1953 issue.The painting depicts a husband and wife with their three children walking to church through a city street. Walking to Church had been on a long-term loan at the Norman Rockwell Museum before its 2013 sale.. Walking to Church is a 1952 painting by the American painter Norman Rockwell, painted for the cover of The Saturday Evening Post's April 4, 1953 issue. The painting depicts a husband and wife with their three children walking to church through a city street. Walking to Church had been on a long-term loan at the Norman Rockwell Museum before its 2013 sale.. 
The Vision of Constantine. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Vision of Constantine is an equestrian sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini, located in the Scala Regia by St. Peter's Basilica in Vatican City. Originally commissioned as a free standing work of art within St. Peter's itself, the sculpture was finally unveiled in 1670 as an integral part of the Scala Regia - Bernini's redesigned stairway between St. Peter's Basilica and the Vatican Palace. Unlike other large works by Bernini, art historians have suggested that this work was almost entirely undertaken by him - no other sculptors have been recorded as receiving payment. Bernini's overall fee was 7,000 Roman scudi.. The Vision of Constantine is an equestrian sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini, located in the Scala Regia by St. Peter's Basilica in Vatican City. Originally commissioned as a free standing work of art within St. Peter's itself, the sculpture was finally unveiled in 1670 as an integral part of the Scala Regia - Bernini's redesigned stairway between St. Peter's Basilica and the Vatican Palace. Unlike other large works by Bernini, art historians have suggested that this work was almost entirely undertaken by him - no other sculptors have been recorded as receiving payment. Bernini's overall fee was 7,000 Roman scudi.. 
Vocation of the Apostles. Author Name: Domenico Ghirlandaio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Vocation of the Apostles is a fresco by the Italian Renaissance painter Domenico Ghirlandaio, executed in 1481–1482 and located in the Sistine Chapel, Rome.. The Vocation of the Apostles is a fresco by the Italian Renaissance painter Domenico Ghirlandaio, executed in 1481–1482 and located in the Sistine Chapel, Rome.. 
«Stone as a weapon of the proletariat». Author Name: Ivan Shadr. . . The year 1967 was marked by many events that left an imprint on the history of Soviet and Russian Fine Arts.. The year 1967 was marked by many events that left an imprint on the history of Soviet and Russian Fine Arts.. 
Portrait of the Artist Holding a Thistle. Author Name: Albrecht Dürer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Portrait of the Artist Holding a Thistle (or Eryngium) is an oil painting on parchment pasted on canvas by German artist Albrecht Dürer, painted in 1493. It is the earliest of Dürer's painted self-portraits and has been identified as one of the first self-portraits painted by a Northern artist. It is currently held and exhibited at the Louvre in Paris.. Portrait of the Artist Holding a Thistle (or Eryngium) is an oil painting on parchment pasted on canvas by German artist Albrecht Dürer, painted in 1493. It is the earliest of Dürer's painted self-portraits and has been identified as one of the first self-portraits painted by a Northern artist. It is currently held and exhibited at the Louvre in Paris.. 
The Bronze Horseman. Author Name: Étienne Maurice Falconet. . . The Bronze Horseman (Russian: Медный всадник, literally "copper horseman") is an equestrian statue of Peter the Great in Saint Petersburg, Russia. Commissioned by Catherine the Great, it was created by the French sculptor Étienne Maurice Falconet. The name comes from an 1833 poem of the same name by Aleksander Pushkin, which is widely considered one of the most significant works of Russian literature. The statue is now one of the symbols of Saint Petersburg.. The Bronze Horseman (Russian: Медный всадник, literally "copper horseman") is an equestrian statue of Peter the Great in Saint Petersburg, Russia. Commissioned by Catherine the Great, it was created by the French sculptor Étienne Maurice Falconet. The name comes from an 1833 poem of the same name by Aleksander Pushkin, which is widely considered one of the most significant works of Russian literature. The statue is now one of the symbols of Saint Petersburg. The statue's pedestal is the enormous Thunder Stone, the largest stone ever moved by humans. The stone originally weighed about 1500 tonnes, and was carved down to 1250 during transportation to its current site.. 
Coal Miner. Author Name: Szaton, Jonathan J.. . . The Coal Miner is a public artwork by Polish American artist John J. Szaton (1907–1966) which is located in two US State capitals; the original, commissioned in 1963 in Springfield, Illinois, as well as a copy on the west lawn of the Indiana Statehouse in Indianapolis, Indiana The statues commemorate coal miners who had lost their lives in those states' mining industry. The 7-foot (2.1 m) tall statue rests on a 3-foot (0.91 m) square, granite base supported by a cement foundation that is 4–6 inches (100–150 mm) thick.. The Coal Miner is a public artwork by Polish American artist John J. Szaton (1907–1966) which is located in two US State capitals; the original, commissioned in 1963 in Springfield, Illinois, as well as a copy on the west lawn of the Indiana Statehouse in Indianapolis, Indiana The statues commemorate coal miners who had lost their lives in those states' mining industry. The 7-foot (2.1 m) tall statue rests on a 3-foot (0.91 m) square, granite base supported by a cement foundation that is 4–6 inches (100–150 mm) thick.. 
Lamentation over the Dead Christ. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Lamentation over the Dead Christ, is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli, finished around 1490-1492. It is housed in the Alte Pinakothek, in Munich.The portrait shows the inert body of Christ surrounded by the Virgin, St. Peter and Mary Magdalene, St. John the Evangelist, St. Jerome and St. Paul.. The Lamentation over the Dead Christ, is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli, finished around 1490-1492. It is housed in the Alte Pinakothek, in Munich. The portrait shows the inert body of Christ surrounded by the Virgin, St. Peter and Mary Magdalene, St. John the Evangelist, St. Jerome and St. Paul. The pathetic expressions of the characters were a novelty in Botticelli's art: under the spiritual influence of Savonarola's preachings in Florence, which began around the time the work was executed, he started in fact to abandon the allegoric inspiration that had made him a favourite of the Medici court in favour of more intimate and painstaking religious reflection.. 
The Punishment of Tythus. Author Name: Titian. . . The Punishment of Tythus is a mythological painting by Titian dating to 1549 and now in the Museo del Prado. It shows the punishment of the giant Tityos from Greek mythology.. The Punishment of Tythus is a mythological painting by Titian dating to 1549 and now in the Museo del Prado. It shows the punishment of the giant Tityos from Greek mythology.. 
St. Christopher Carrying the Christ Child. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . St. Christopher Carrying the Christ Child is a painting by Hieronymus Bosch, dating to between 1490 and 1500. It resides at the Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen in Rotterdam, the Netherlands.. St. Christopher Carrying the Christ Child is a painting by Hieronymus Bosch, dating to between 1490 and 1500. It resides at the Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen in Rotterdam, the Netherlands.. 
Uncle Sam Memorial Statue. Author Name: Barbarossa, Theodore Cotillo. . . The Uncle Sam Memorial Statue is a statue commemorating Samuel Wilson, perhaps the original Uncle Sam, near his birthplace in the center of Arlington, Massachusetts, United States. It was sculpted by Theodore Cotillo Barbarossa. It is located on Mystic Street, adjacent to the Minuteman Bikeway.The sculpture is approximately 8 feet, 8 inches high, on a base approximately 15 feet, 8 inches high by 10 feet wide. Its weight is 17 tons. It was cast and erected by Eleftherios Karkadoulias, with stone work fabricated by Woolery Stone Company, and contains a number of inscriptions, including:. The Uncle Sam Memorial Statue is a statue commemorating Samuel Wilson, perhaps the original Uncle Sam, near his birthplace in the center of Arlington, Massachusetts, United States. It was sculpted by Theodore Cotillo Barbarossa. It is located on Mystic Street, adjacent to the Minuteman Bikeway. The sculpture is a bronze relief of Uncle Sam and three-dimensional sculpture of Samuel Wilson, installed on a limestone base in front of a wall rising from the base's rear. It was funded by Frederick A. Hauck of Cincinnati, Ohio, cast in 1976, installed during the United States Bicentennial on September 11, 1976, and dedicated April 18, 1977. The bronze relief depicts the life and work of Samuel Wilson in Troy, New York and Mason, New Hampshire, and in Menotomy, Massachusetts (now Arlington, Massachusetts). The relief includes a depiction of the familiar image of the elderly "Uncle Sam" figure in top hat and tails. At its top is a butcher and a ship coming in to dock next to the word "TROY"; in the middle is a pioneer couple standing behind a fence with the words "MASON N-H"; and at the bottom is a soldier on horseback above the word "MENOTOMY." To the relief's right is a standing portrait of Wilson carrying his top hat in the crook of his left arm and extending his right hand slightly. The sculpture is approximately 8 feet, 8 inches high, on a base approximately 15 feet, 8 inches high by 10 feet wide. Its weight is 17 tons. It was cast and erected by Eleftherios Karkadoulias, with stone work fabricated by Woolery Stone Company, and contains a number of inscriptions, including:. 
The Bride Stripped Bare by Her Bachelors, Even. Author Name: Marcel Duchamp. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Conceptual_art. . The Bride Stripped Bare by Her Bachelors, Even (La mariée mise à nu par ses célibataires, même), most often called The Large Glass (Le Grand Verre), is an artwork by Marcel Duchamp over nine feet (2.75 metres) tall, and freestanding. Duchamp worked on the piece from 1915 to 1923, creating two panes of glass with materials such as lead foil, fuse wire, and dust. It combines chance procedures, plotted perspective studies, and laborious craftsmanship. Duchamp's ideas for the Glass began in 1913, and he made numerous notes and studies, as well as preliminary works for the piece. The notes reflect the creation of unique rules of physics, and myth which describes the work.. The Bride Stripped Bare by Her Bachelors, Even (La mariée mise à nu par ses célibataires, même), most often called The Large Glass (Le Grand Verre), is an artwork by Marcel Duchamp over nine feet (2.75 metres) tall, and freestanding. Duchamp worked on the piece from 1915 to 1923, creating two panes of glass with materials such as lead foil, fuse wire, and dust. It combines chance procedures, plotted perspective studies, and laborious craftsmanship. Duchamp's ideas for the Glass began in 1913, and he made numerous notes and studies, as well as preliminary works for the piece. The notes reflect the creation of unique rules of physics, and myth which describes the work. It is at first sight baffling in iconograhy and unclassifiable style. Yet this glass construction is not a discrete whole. The Bride Stripped Bare by Her Bachelors, Even is also the title given to The Green Box notes (1934) as Duchamp intended the Large Glass to be accompanied by a book, in order to prevent purely visual responses to it. The notes describe that his "hilarious picture" is intended to depict the erotic encounter between the "Bride," in the upper panel, and her nine "Bachelors" gathered timidly below in an abundance of mysterious mechanical apparatus in the lower panel. The Large Glass was exhibited in 1926 at the Brooklyn Museum before it was broken during transport and carefully repaired by Duchamp. It is now part of the permanent collection at the Philadelphia Museum of Art. Duchamp sanctioned replicas of The Large Glass, the first in 1961 for an exhibition at Moderna Museet in Stockholm and another in 1966 for the Tate Gallery in London. The third replica is in Komaba Museum, University of Tokyo.. 
Skaters in the Bois de Boulogne. Author Name: Pierre-Auguste Renoir. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Skaters in the Bois de Boulogne (French: Les patineurs à Longchamp) is an oil-on-canvas landscape painting by the French artist Pierre-Auguste Renoir, created during the winter of 1868. The painting depicts a snowscape with a large number of Parisians, young and old, spending leisure time on a frozen park lake. Due to Renoir's strong dislike of cold temperatures and snow, the piece is one of his few winter landscapes.. Skaters in the Bois de Boulogne (French: Les patineurs à Longchamp) is an oil-on-canvas landscape painting by the French artist Pierre-Auguste Renoir, created during the winter of 1868. The painting depicts a snowscape with a large number of Parisians, young and old, spending leisure time on a frozen park lake. Due to Renoir's strong dislike of cold temperatures and snow, the piece is one of his few winter landscapes.. 
Woodland music makers. Author Name: Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Le Concert Champêtre ("Woodland Music-makers") is a 1857 painting by French artist Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot, currently housed in the Musée Condé of Chantilly, France. A reworking of a composition exhibited by Corot in the Salon of 1844, the painting was shown in the Salon of 1857.The painting depicts three women, one with a cello, in the foreground of a forest landscape.. Le Concert Champêtre ("Woodland Music-makers") is a 1857 painting by French artist Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot, currently housed in the Musée Condé of Chantilly, France. A reworking of a composition exhibited by Corot in the Salon of 1844, the painting was shown in the Salon of 1857. The painting depicts three women, one with a cello, in the foreground of a forest landscape.. 
Two-Piece Reclining Figure No. 9. Author Name: Henry Moore. . Author Movement: Bronze Sculpture, Modernism. . Two-Piece Reclining Figure No. 9 is a bronze sculpture of 1967 by the English artist Henry Moore, which exists in several versions and is catalogued as LH 576.Examples are located at the National Library of Australia, in Canberra, the Norton Simon Museum in Pasadena, California, the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and the Kansas City Sculpture Park,The bronze sculpture is an abstract, androgynous reclining form; it rests on a base installed on the lawn.. Two-Piece Reclining Figure No. 9 is a bronze sculpture of 1967 by the English artist Henry Moore, which exists in several versions and is catalogued as LH 576. Examples are located at the National Library of Australia, in Canberra, the Norton Simon Museum in Pasadena, California, the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and the Kansas City Sculpture Park, The bronze sculpture is an abstract, androgynous reclining form; it rests on a base installed on the lawn.. 
Presentation at the Temple. Author Name: Giovanni Bellini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Presentation at the Temple is a painting of the Presentation of Jesus at the Temple by the Italian master Giovanni Bellini, dating to c. 1460. It is housed in the Fondazione Querini Stampalia, in Venice, Italy.. The Presentation at the Temple is a painting of the Presentation of Jesus at the Temple by the Italian master Giovanni Bellini, dating to c. 1460. It is housed in the Fondazione Querini Stampalia, in Venice, Italy.. 
The Gypsy Girl. Author Name: Frans Hals. . . The Gypsy Girl (sometimes erroneously referred to as Malle Babbe) is a painting by the Dutch Golden Age painter Frans Hals, painted in 1628 and now in the Louvre Museum. It is a tronie, a study of facial expression and unusual costume, rather than a commissioned portrait. The display of cleavage was certainly not a common feature of costume seen in public in Hals' time and place.. The Gypsy Girl (sometimes erroneously referred to as Malle Babbe) is a painting by the Dutch Golden Age painter Frans Hals, painted in 1628 and now in the Louvre Museum. It is a tronie, a study of facial expression and unusual costume, rather than a commissioned portrait. The display of cleavage was certainly not a common feature of costume seen in public in Hals' time and place.. 
The Races at Longchamp. Author Name: Édouard Manet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Races at Longchamp is an 1866 painting by the French artist Édouard Manet. The Impressionist painting depicts a horse racing at Longchamp and is currently conserved at the Art Institute of Chicago. It has been exhibited many times, the first one at the École nationale supérieure des Beaux-Arts in Paris in January 1884.. The Races at Longchamp is an 1866 painting by the French artist Édouard Manet. The Impressionist painting depicts a horse racing at Longchamp and is currently conserved at the Art Institute of Chicago. It has been exhibited many times, the first one at the École nationale supérieure des Beaux-Arts in Paris in January 1884. The work is particularly innovative. About the painting, the Art Institute of Chicago said it "is startling. We find ourselves on the racecourse with a cluster of onrushing horses and jockeys bearing directly down on us. With a few judicious exceptions—the vertical starting post left of center; the crisp rectangle of the viewing-stand roof at the right—everything is blurred, a device that heightens the sense of explosive movement of the galloping horses.". 
Jupiter and Antiope. Author Name: Antoine Watteau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Rococo. . Jupiter and Antiope (French: Jupiter et Antiope) is an oil painting by the French artist Antoine Watteau. It is also known as the Satyr and the Sleeping Nymph and was probably painted between 1714 and 1719. Intended to be placed over a doorway, today it hangs in the Louvre in Paris.. Jupiter and Antiope (French: Jupiter et Antiope) is an oil painting by the French artist Antoine Watteau. It is also known as the Satyr and the Sleeping Nymph and was probably painted between 1714 and 1719. Intended to be placed over a doorway, today it hangs in the Louvre in Paris.. 
The Cliff Walk at Pourville. Author Name: Claude Monet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Cliff Walk at Pourville is an 1882 painting by the French Impressionist painter Claude Monet. It currently resides at the Art Institute of Chicago. It is a landscape painting featuring two women atop a cliff above the sea.. The Cliff Walk at Pourville is an 1882 painting by the French Impressionist painter Claude Monet. It currently resides at the Art Institute of Chicago. It is a landscape painting featuring two women atop a cliff above the sea. The canvas was inspired by an extended stay at Pourville in 1882. Monet settled in the village between February and mid-April, during which time he wrote to his future wife, Alice Hoschedé, "How beautiful the countryside is becoming, and what joy it would be for me to show you all its delightful nooks and crannies!" They returned in June of that year. The two young women standing atop the cliff may be Hoschedé's daughters, Marthe and Blanche; it has also been suggested that the figures represent Alice and Blanche, both of whom painted out of doors at that time. The various elements of the painting are unified through brushwork; short, crisp brushstrokes were used to paint the grasses of the cliff, the women's drapery and the distant sea. A sense of movement suggested by painterly calligraphy was a property of Monet's work in the 1880s, and is here used to connote the effect of a summer wind upon figures, land, water, and clouds moving across the sky. During the painting process, Monet reduced the size of a rocky promontory at far right, to better balance the composition's proportions; however, it's also been noted that this secondary cliff was a late addition to the canvas, and was not part of the original design. An X-ray of the painting indicates that the artist originally painted a third figure into the grouping, then removed it. Describing similar works by the artist, art historian John House wrote, “His cliff tops rarely show a single sweep of terrain. Instead there are breaks in space; the eye progresses into depth by a succession of jumps; distance is expressed by planes overlapping each other and by atmospheric rather than linear perspective- by softening the focus and changes of color.” The sense of immediacy is heightened by the juxtapositions of the cliff and sea, the contrast between ground and openness.. 
Difficile émergence vers la lumière. Author Name: Frankétienne. . . Difficile émergence vers la lumière (Difficult emergence into the Light) is an artwork by Haitian artist Frankétienne created on 2011, and represents the victims of the Hurricanes that usually lash this region, and their effort to reach the Light.It was shown to the public for the last time during the exposition "Pour la memoire et la lumière" ("For memory and light") promoted by the foundation Ayiti Bel at the Hotel NH Haiti El Rancho, in Pétionville, Haití, between April 11 and April 25, 2014.Later, it was acquired by a private collector.[citation needed],. Difficile émergence vers la lumière (Difficult emergence into the Light) is an artwork by Haitian artist Frankétienne created on 2011, and represents the victims of the Hurricanes that usually lash this region, and their effort to reach the Light. It was shown to the public for the last time during the exposition "Pour la memoire et la lumière" ("For memory and light") promoted by the foundation Ayiti Bel at the Hotel NH Haiti El Rancho, in Pétionville, Haití, between April 11 and April 25, 2014. Later, it was acquired by a private collector.[citation needed], On the bottom of the artwork, the artist wrote before his signature: "Par-delà la fureur des tempêtes saisonnières il y a des voix qui parlent et des tripes que saignent." It can be translated as "Beyond the rage of seasonal storms there are voices that speak and bleeding guts.". 
The Crowning with Thorns. Author Name: Titian. . . The Crowning with Thorns is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Titian (Tiziano Vecellio) done during 1542 and 1543. It is housed in the Musée du Louvre in Paris, France.The painting was commissioned by the confraternity of Santa Maria delle Grazie in Milan. It was brought to France after the Napoleonic conquest of the city in 1797.According to Robert Haven Schauffler, the German painter Fritz von Uhde once considered it to be "the greatest picture ever painted.". The Crowning with Thorns is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Titian (Tiziano Vecellio) done during 1542 and 1543. It is housed in the Musée du Louvre in Paris, France. The painting was commissioned by the confraternity of Santa Maria delle Grazie in Milan. It was brought to France after the Napoleonic conquest of the city in 1797. According to Robert Haven Schauffler, the German painter Fritz von Uhde once considered it to be "the greatest picture ever painted.". 
Salisbury Cathedral from the Bishop's Grounds. Author Name: John Constable. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . Salisbury Cathedral from the Bishop's Grounds is an 1823 painting by the nineteenth-century landscape painter John Constable (1776–1837). This image of Salisbury Cathedral, one of England's most famous medieval churches, is one of his most celebrated works, and was commissioned by one of his closest friends, John Fisher, The Bishop of Salisbury.A small version of the painting resides at the Huntington Library in San Marino, California. John Fisher gave it to his daughter as a wedding present.. Salisbury Cathedral from the Bishop's Grounds is an 1823 painting by the nineteenth-century landscape painter John Constable (1776–1837). This image of Salisbury Cathedral, one of England's most famous medieval churches, is one of his most celebrated works, and was commissioned by one of his closest friends, John Fisher, The Bishop of Salisbury. Constable visited Salisbury in 1820 and made a series of oil sketches of the cathedral, which served as the model for this composition. The artist selected a viewpoint from the bishop's garden and included figures of Dr. Fisher and his wife at the bottom left. Following its exhibition at the 1823 Royal Academy, Constable observed: "My Cathedral looks very well....It was the most difficult subject in Landscape I ever had upon my Easel. I have not flinched at the work of the windows, buttresses, &c. - but I have as usual made my escape in the Evanescence of the Chiaro-Oscuro". His patron took exception to the dark cloud over the cathedral, and when he commissioned a smaller replica, requested "a more serene sky". The painting embodies the full range of qualities of a quintessentially British landscape painting – the clouds, trees, a water meadow, cattle drinking at the edge of the pasture and the glorious architecture of a medieval cathedral – but all on a human scale.[citation needed] Paintings like this one have so conditioned our view of rural Britain that it is now difficult to imagine a time when the countryside and country life were not held in such high regard.[citation needed] A version of the painting also resides at the Frick Collection in New York City. It is slightly different in that it shows different weather and hence light. Whereas the London version depicts the cathedral with an overcast sky, the version in the Frick shows the cathedral with a clear, bright sky. A small version of the painting resides at the Huntington Library in San Marino, California. John Fisher gave it to his daughter as a wedding present. There is an earlier, homonymous version (1821-1822) of this painting at São Paulo Museum of Art in São Paulo. It is said that Fisher, seeing its sombre and grave colors, disliked it and asked for a happier, lighter one.. 
Queen of Sheba. Author Name: Alexander Archipenko. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Queen of Sheba is a public art work by artist Alexander Archipenko located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The abstract bronze sculpture includes sloping concave forms, vaguely female curves, and a rounded crown; it is installed on the patio.. Queen of Sheba is a public art work by artist Alexander Archipenko located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The abstract bronze sculpture includes sloping concave forms, vaguely female curves, and a rounded crown; it is installed on the patio.. 
Girl in White. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Girl in White (also known as Young Girl Standing Against a Background of Wheat and Woman in a Cornfield) was painted by Vincent van Gogh in 1890 in Auvers-sur-Oise, France, during the last months of his life. Girl in White has been part of the Chester Dale Collection in the National Gallery of Art, Washington D.C. since 1963.. Girl in White (also known as Young Girl Standing Against a Background of Wheat and Woman in a Cornfield) was painted by Vincent van Gogh in 1890 in Auvers-sur-Oise, France, during the last months of his life. Girl in White has been part of the Chester Dale Collection in the National Gallery of Art, Washington D.C. since 1963.. 
Miss Bentham. Author Name: George Bellows. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/American_realism. . Miss Bentham is a 1906 oil painting by the American artist George Wesley Bellows, depicting a full length, standing, nude woman, from the rear. In 2015, it was acquired by the Barber Institute of Fine Arts in Birmingham, England.. Miss Bentham is a 1906 oil painting by the American artist George Wesley Bellows, depicting a full length, standing, nude woman, from the rear. In 2015, it was acquired by the Barber Institute of Fine Arts in Birmingham, England.. 
Equestrian Statue of King Louis XIV. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Equestrian Statue of King Louis XIV is a late sculpture designed and partially executed by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Bernini first discussed the project while in France in the mid-1660s, but it did not start until later in the decade, when back in Rome. It was not completed until 1684, and then shipped to Paris in 1685. Louis XIV of France was extremely unhappy with the end result and had it placed in a corner of the gardens of the royal palace at Versailles. Eventually, the sculpture was modified by François Girardon and altered into an equestrian sculpture of the ancient Roman hero Marcus Curtius  A. print of the sculpture, mistakenly identified as being by Bernini's father Pietro, exists in the Bibliotheque Nationale de France.. The Equestrian Statue of King Louis XIV is a late sculpture designed and partially executed by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Bernini first discussed the project while in France in the mid-1660s, but it did not start until later in the decade, when back in Rome. It was not completed until 1684, and then shipped to Paris in 1685. Louis XIV of France was extremely unhappy with the end result and had it placed in a corner of the gardens of the royal palace at Versailles. Eventually, the sculpture was modified by François Girardon and altered into an equestrian sculpture of the ancient Roman hero Marcus Curtius A. print of the sculpture, mistakenly identified as being by Bernini's father Pietro, exists in the Bibliotheque Nationale de France.. 
Portrait of Cardinal Ludovico Trevisan. Author Name: Andrea Mantegna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Cardinal Ludovico Trevisan is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Andrea Mantegna, dated to c. 1459-1460.. The Portrait of Cardinal Ludovico Trevisan is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Andrea Mantegna, dated to c. 1459-1460.. 
The Lackawanna Valley. Author Name: George Inness. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Hudson_River_School. . The Lackawanna Valley is a c. 1855 painting by the American artist George Inness. Painted in oil on canvas, it is one of Inness's best and most well-known works. It is in the collection of the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C.The painting was commissioned from Inness by John Jay Phelps the first president of the Delaware, Lackawanna and Western Railroad, and depicts the Lackawanna Valley in Pennsylvania at the site of the railroad's first roundhouse in Scranton.. The Lackawanna Valley is a c. 1855 painting by the American artist George Inness. Painted in oil on canvas, it is one of Inness's best and most well-known works. It is in the collection of the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. The painting was commissioned from Inness by John Jay Phelps the first president of the Delaware, Lackawanna and Western Railroad, and depicts the Lackawanna Valley in Pennsylvania at the site of the railroad's first roundhouse in Scranton.. 
Madonna with child. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Madonna with Child is a tempera painting by Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli, dating to c. 1467 and housed in the Musée du Petit Palais of Avignon, France.. Madonna with Child is a tempera painting by Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli, dating to c. 1467 and housed in the Musée du Petit Palais of Avignon, France.. 
Le Lanceur De Couteaux. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . Le Lanceur De Couteaux is a paper cut by Henri Matisse from 1947. It is from Jazz, 1947.. Le Lanceur De Couteaux is a paper cut by Henri Matisse from 1947. It is from Jazz, 1947.. 
Venus and the Three Graces Presenting Gifts to a Young Woman. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Venus and the Three Graces Presenting Gifts to a Young Woman, also known as Giovanna degli Albizzi Receiving a Gift of Flowers from Venus (Italian: Venere e le tre Grazie offrono doni a una giovane), is a fresco painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli of circa 1483-1486. The painting and its companion piece, A Young Man Being Introduced to the Seven Liberal Arts, originally decorated the walls of Villa Lemmi, a country villa near Florence owned by Giovanni Tornabuoni, uncle of Lorenzo de' Medici and head of the Roman branch of the Medici Bank. They were probably commissioned for the wedding in 1486 of Giovanni's son Lorenzo to Giovanna of the Albizzi family, and are therefore thought to depict the two.. Venus and the Three Graces Presenting Gifts to a Young Woman, also known as Giovanna degli Albizzi Receiving a Gift of Flowers from Venus (Italian: Venere e le tre Grazie offrono doni a una giovane), is a fresco painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli of circa 1483-1486. The painting and its companion piece, A Young Man Being Introduced to the Seven Liberal Arts, originally decorated the walls of Villa Lemmi, a country villa near Florence owned by Giovanni Tornabuoni, uncle of Lorenzo de' Medici and head of the Roman branch of the Medici Bank. They were probably commissioned for the wedding in 1486 of Giovanni's son Lorenzo to Giovanna of the Albizzi family, and are therefore thought to depict the two. Venus and the Three Graces Presenting Gifts to a Young Woman shows a young woman, probably Giovanna Tornabuoni, being received by Venus and the three Graces. Giovanna holds open a white cloth, into which Venus is laying roses symbolizing beauty and love. Both paintings were discovered at Villa Lemmi in 1873 under a coat of whitewash and removed from the wall and transferred to a canvas support. They are now in the Musée du Louvre, Paris.. 
A Philosopher by Lamplight. Author Name: Joseph Wright. . . A Philosopher by lamplight (also known as A Hermit studying anatomy) is a painting by Joseph Wright of Derby. It is not known when Wright painted the picture, but it was first exhibited in 1769 in London with the Society of Artists. This was one of the earliest of many lamplight or candlelight paintings and portraits for which Wright is famed.. A Philosopher by lamplight (also known as A Hermit studying anatomy) is a painting by Joseph Wright of Derby. It is not known when Wright painted the picture, but it was first exhibited in 1769 in London with the Society of Artists. This was one of the earliest of many lamplight or candlelight paintings and portraits for which Wright is famed.. 
A holiday at Mentone. Author Name: Charles Edward Conder.. . . A holiday at Mentone is an 1888 painting by the Australian artist Charles Conder. The painting depicts a beach in the Melbourne suburb of Mentone on a bright and sunny day. Conder's depiction of people engaged in seaside activities and the brilliant noonday sunshine mark the painting as distinctively Australian in character.The painting is now part of the collection of the Art Gallery of South Australia.. A holiday at Mentone is an 1888 painting by the Australian artist Charles Conder. The painting depicts a beach in the Melbourne suburb of Mentone on a bright and sunny day. Conder's depiction of people engaged in seaside activities and the brilliant noonday sunshine mark the painting as distinctively Australian in character. The painting was first exhibited at Victorian Artists' Society Spring exhibition in November 1888, one month after Conder, aged only 20, arrived in Melbourne from Sydney. Conder had met Tom Roberts in Sydney the previous year and again at Easter 1888, where the pair had painted together at Coogee Beach. On arrival in Melbourne, Conder initially based himself at Roberts' Grosvenor Chambers studio and A Holiday at Mentone was Conder's first Melbourne painting. The work shows evidence of being influenced by Japanese art while a similar bridge motif was commonly used by the influential American painter James McNeil Whistler. One of Arthur Streeton's descendants suggested that Roberts is the figure in the grey suit on the pier and Streeton is the man lying down on the beach. Perhaps Conder's best known painting, A holiday at Mentone has been described as a "critically acclaimed masterpiece of the Australian Impressionist style of painting" and a "singularly Australian work". Terence Lane, senior curator of Australian Art at the National Gallery of Victoria described the painting's staging as "stilted, almost surreal" but the composition as "splendidly abstract and the sunshine brilliantly Australian". The painting is now part of the collection of the Art Gallery of South Australia.. 
Jealousy. Author Name: Edvard Munch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Expressionism. . Jealousy (Norwegian: Sjalusi) is a painting by Norwegian artist Edvard Munch. Munch returned to this image throughout his whole life - he completed no less than 11 painted versions of Jealousy. The first painting was executed in 1895, and the last was made during the 1930s. Munch also created four lithograph versions and one drypoint of Jealousy.. Jealousy (Norwegian: Sjalusi) is a painting by Norwegian artist Edvard Munch. Munch returned to this image throughout his whole life - he completed no less than 11 painted versions of Jealousy. The first painting was executed in 1895, and the last was made during the 1930s. Munch also created four lithograph versions and one drypoint of Jealousy. The painting was made during European period and is based on expressionism style. The 1895 oil on convas painting, perhaps the most famous version, is now housed at Rasmus Meyer Collection, Bergen and it measures 67 by 100 centimeters. In addition, eight painted versions are possessed by the Munch Museum in Oslo and one version is located at the Städel Museum in Frankfurt am Main (on loan from a private collection). Another version, executed between 1898 and 1900, is called Jealousy in the Bath and was sold at Sotheby's in 1982, but the current location remains unknown.. 
Brushstrokes. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Brushstrokes is a 1996 sculpture by Roy Lichtenstein, installed at the Portland Art Museum in Portland, Oregon. It is part of the Brushstrokes series of artworks that includes several paintings and sculptures whose subject is the actions made with a house-painter's brush.. Brushstrokes is a 1996 sculpture by Roy Lichtenstein, installed at the Portland Art Museum in Portland, Oregon. It is part of the Brushstrokes series of artworks that includes several paintings and sculptures whose subject is the actions made with a house-painter's brush.. 
Spirit of Polonia. Author Name: Lewandowski, Edmund. . . The Spirit of Polonia, also known as Solidarity, by Edmund Lewandowski is a sculpture commissioned as part of the fifteenth anniversary of Polanki, the Polish Women's Cultural Club of Milwaukee. Sculpted in 1969, this piece is placed on the South side of the Milwaukee Courthouse Courthouse located at 901 North 9th Street in Milwaukee's downtown.. The Spirit of Polonia, also known as Solidarity, by Edmund Lewandowski is a sculpture commissioned as part of the fifteenth anniversary of Polanki, the Polish Women's Cultural Club of Milwaukee. Sculpted in 1969, this piece is placed on the South side of the Milwaukee Courthouse Courthouse located at 901 North 9th Street in Milwaukee's downtown.. 
Symphony in White, No. 3. Author Name: James Abbott McNeill Whistler. . Author Movement: Founder of Tonalism. . Symphony in White, No. 3, is a painting by James Abbott McNeill Whistler. The work shows two women dressed in white, one sitting on a sofa and the other resting on the floor. The model on the sofa is Joanna Heffernan, the artist's mistress. By calling the painting Symphony in White, No. 3, Whistler intended to emphasise his artistic philosophy of corresponding arts, inspired by the poet Charles Baudelaire. The presence of a fan on the floor shows the influence of Japonisme, which was a popular artistic trend in European art at the time. Whistler was also greatly influenced by his colleague and friend Albert Joseph Moore, and their works show considerable similarities.. Symphony in White, No. 3, is a painting by James Abbott McNeill Whistler. The work shows two women dressed in white, one sitting on a sofa and the other resting on the floor. The model on the sofa is Joanna Heffernan, the artist's mistress. By calling the painting Symphony in White, No. 3, Whistler intended to emphasise his artistic philosophy of corresponding arts, inspired by the poet Charles Baudelaire. The presence of a fan on the floor shows the influence of Japonisme, which was a popular artistic trend in European art at the time. Whistler was also greatly influenced by his colleague and friend Albert Joseph Moore, and their works show considerable similarities. Though Whistler started on the painting in 1865, he was not ready to exhibit it publicly until 1867, when it went on display at the Royal Academy. His colleagues were impressed by the painting, but not all critics fully understood the connection between the painting and its title. One review in particular questioned the presence of other colours in addition to white, a criticism which prompted Whistler to respond with a scathing and sarcastic letter. Years later, Whistler's former student Walter Sickert criticized the painting as "the low-water mark of the old manner, before the birth of the new.". 
Nativity. Author Name: Antonio da Correggio. . Author Movement: Mannerism. . The Nativity (also known as The Holy Night (or La Notte) or as Adoration of the Shepherds) is a painting finished around 1529–1530 by the Italian painter Antonio da Correggio. It is housed in the Gemäldegalerie Alte Meister, Dresden.This work pointed the way toward the future Lombard investigation of luministic effects, and was used as a model by such painters as Camillo Procaccini, Luca Cambiasi, Guido Reni and Domenichino, and even later on, by Barocci and Maratta.. The Nativity (also known as The Holy Night (or La Notte) or as Adoration of the Shepherds) is a painting finished around 1529–1530 by the Italian painter Antonio da Correggio. It is housed in the Gemäldegalerie Alte Meister, Dresden. The work was commissioned from Correggio in October 1522 by Alberto Pratoneri for the family chapel in the church of San Prospero of Reggio Emilia: completed at the end of the decade, it was placed in the chapel in 1530. In a what was considered a minor sacrilege, the painting was absconded in 1640 by duke Francesco I d'Este and taken to his private gallery, it was moved to Dresden in 1746. The artist, following the trail blazed by a number of celebrated works by Titian, interpreted a scene that is fully 'à la chandell' ("of the candle") and produced an outstanding result in the Chiaroscuro treatment of light. The scene pivots around the Child, surrounded by Mary's arms, with a group of shepherds on the left, of which the bearded figure is portrayed in the same position of Jerome in the Madonna with St. Jerome (c. 1523). On the right are the traditional presepe animals and St. Joseph. The upper left part features several angels reminiscent the ardite positions in Correggio's dome of the Cathedral of Parma, executed in the same years. This work pointed the way toward the future Lombard investigation of luministic effects, and was used as a model by such painters as Camillo Procaccini, Luca Cambiasi, Guido Reni and Domenichino, and even later on, by Barocci and Maratta.. 
Portrait of Kitty. Author Name: Lucian Freud. . . Portrait of Kitty is a painting by Lucian Freud of Kitty Garman, his wife and the eldest daughter of the sculptor Jacob Epstein and Kathleen Garman. Completed between 1948 and 1949, this oil on board measures 35 by 24 centimetres (13.8 in × 9.4 in).Freud (1922–2011) was married to Garman (1926–2011) between 1948 and 1952, and the couple had two daughters together, Annie (born 1948) and Annabel (born 1952).. Portrait of Kitty is a painting by Lucian Freud of Kitty Garman, his wife and the eldest daughter of the sculptor Jacob Epstein and Kathleen Garman. Completed between 1948 and 1949, this oil on board measures 35 by 24 centimetres (13.8 in × 9.4 in). Freud (1922–2011) was married to Garman (1926–2011) between 1948 and 1952, and the couple had two daughters together, Annie (born 1948) and Annabel (born 1952).. 
Romulus and Remus. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Romulus and Remus is a painting by the Flemish artist Peter Paul Rubens. It is housed in the Pinacoteca Capitolina in Rome, Italy.. Romulus and Remus is a painting by the Flemish artist Peter Paul Rubens. It is housed in the Pinacoteca Capitolina in Rome, Italy.. 
Portrait of a Young Woman. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Portrait of a Young Woman is an unfinished painting of around 1603, attributed to Rubens. It may be connected with a commission from Vincenzo Gonzaga, Duke of Mantua mentioned in Rubens' letters, during the latter's time in Italy and Spain, to paint aristocratic Spanish ladies to add to the duke's 'gallery of beauties'. Its subject's name is unknown. Two red seals on its back place it in Venice early in the 19th century and then in the collection of Sir John Hanmer at Bettisfield Park in Wrexham by the 1840s.. Portrait of a Young Woman is an unfinished painting of around 1603, attributed to Rubens. It may be connected with a commission from Vincenzo Gonzaga, Duke of Mantua mentioned in Rubens' letters, during the latter's time in Italy and Spain, to paint aristocratic Spanish ladies to add to the duke's 'gallery of beauties'. Its subject's name is unknown. Two red seals on its back place it in Venice early in the 19th century and then in the collection of Sir John Hanmer at Bettisfield Park in Wrexham by the 1840s. An anonymous buyer bought it in 1986 and he offered it for sale in December 2009 at Sotheby's, at which point it was given an estimate of up to £6 million, but it failed to sell. In January 2011 an export bar was placed on it until March 2011 (with a possible extension to May 2011) to allow time for a British museum to raise £1 million to purchase it.. 
The Oxbow. Author Name: Thomas Cole. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Hudson_River_School. . View from Mount Holyoke, Northampton, Massachusetts, after a Thunderstorm, commonly known as The Oxbow, is a seminal landscape painting by Thomas Cole, founder of the Hudson River School. The painting depicts a Romantic panorama of the Connecticut River Valley just after a thunderstorm. It has been interpreted as a confrontation between wilderness and civilization.. View from Mount Holyoke, Northampton, Massachusetts, after a Thunderstorm, commonly known as The Oxbow, is a seminal landscape painting by Thomas Cole, founder of the Hudson River School. The painting depicts a Romantic panorama of the Connecticut River Valley just after a thunderstorm. It has been interpreted as a confrontation between wilderness and civilization.. 
The Benois Madonna. Author Name: Leonardo da Vinci. . . Madonna and Child with Flowers, otherwise known as the Benois Madonna, could be one of two Madonnas Leonardo da Vinci had commented on having started in October 1478. The other one could be Madonna of the Carnation from Munich.The composition of Madonna and Child with Flowers proved to be one of Leonardo's most popular. It was extensively copied by young painters, including Raphael, whose own version of Leonardo's design (the Madonna of the Pinks) was acquired in 2004 by the National Gallery, London.Since 1914 the painting has been exhibited in the Hermitage Museum in Saint Petersburg.. Madonna and Child with Flowers, otherwise known as the Benois Madonna, could be one of two Madonnas Leonardo da Vinci had commented on having started in October 1478. The other one could be Madonna of the Carnation from Munich. It is likely that the Benois Madonna was the first work painted by Leonardo independently from his master Verrocchio. There are two of Leonardo's preliminary sketches for this piece in the British Museum. Studies of these sketches and the painting itself suggest that Leonardo was concentrating on the idea of sight. At that time it was thought that human eyes exhibited rays to cause vision with a central beam being the most important. The child is thought to be guiding his mother's hands into his central vision. The composition of Madonna and Child with Flowers proved to be one of Leonardo's most popular. It was extensively copied by young painters, including Raphael, whose own version of Leonardo's design (the Madonna of the Pinks) was acquired in 2004 by the National Gallery, London. For centuries, Madonna and Child with Flowers was considered lost. In 1909, the architect Leon Benois sensationally exhibited it in Saint Petersburg as part of his father-in-law's collection. The painting had been apparently brought from Italy to Russia by the notable connoisseur Aleksey Korsakov in the 1790s. Upon Korsakov's death, it was sold by his son to the Astrakhan merchant Sapozhnikov for 1400 roubles and so passed by inheritance to the Benois family in 1880. After many a squabble regarding attribution, Leon Benois sold the painting to the Imperial Hermitage Museum in 1914. The purchase was made by Ernst Friedrich von Liphart who was the curator of paintings who had correctly identified the artist. (Ernst's father Karl was an expert on da Vinci). Since 1914 the painting has been exhibited in the Hermitage Museum in Saint Petersburg.. 
Sky Fence. Author Name: Howard, Linda. . . Sky Fence is a public art work by artist Linda Howard located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The brushed aluminum sculpture has upright louvered elements; it is installed on the lawn. Howard erected the sculpture at Lynden in the fall of 1977. Of Sky Fence, Howard said, "The eye is forced up to the sky. It reaffirms the ground and transcends in the direction of the sky.". Sky Fence is a public art work by artist Linda Howard located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The brushed aluminum sculpture has upright louvered elements; it is installed on the lawn. Howard erected the sculpture at Lynden in the fall of 1977. Of Sky Fence, Howard said, "The eye is forced up to the sky. It reaffirms the ground and transcends in the direction of the sky.". 
The Son of a Migrant from Syria. Author Name: Banksy. . . The Son of a Migrant from Syria is a 2015 mural by graffiti artist Banksy. The mural is located in the Calais jungle, a nickname for the encampment near Calais, France, where migrants live as they attempt to enter the United Kingdom. The artwork depicts Apple co-founder and former CEO Steve Jobs, the son of a Syrian migrant to the United States, as a traveling migrant.. The Son of a Migrant from Syria is a 2015 mural by graffiti artist Banksy. The mural is located in the Calais jungle, a nickname for the encampment near Calais, France, where migrants live as they attempt to enter the United Kingdom. The artwork depicts Apple co-founder and former CEO Steve Jobs, the son of a Syrian migrant to the United States, as a traveling migrant.. 
The Procuress. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . The Procuress is a 1656 oil-on-canvas painting by the 24-year-old Jan Vermeer. It can be seen in the Gemäldegalerie Alte Meister in Dresden. It is his first genre painting and shows a scene of contemporary life, an image of mercenary love perhaps in a brothel. It differs from his earlier biblical and mythological scenes. It is one of only three paintings Vermeer signed and dated (the other two are The Astronomer and The Geographer).. The Procuress is a 1656 oil-on-canvas painting by the 24-year-old Jan Vermeer. It can be seen in the Gemäldegalerie Alte Meister in Dresden. It is his first genre painting and shows a scene of contemporary life, an image of mercenary love perhaps in a brothel. It differs from his earlier biblical and mythological scenes. It is one of only three paintings Vermeer signed and dated (the other two are The Astronomer and The Geographer). It seems Vermeer was influenced by earlier works on the same subject by Gerard ter Borch, and The Procuress (c. 1622) by Dirck van Baburen, which was owned by Vermeer's mother-in-law Maria Thins and hung in her home.. 
Portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer I. Author Name: Gustav Klimt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Art_Nouveau. . Portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer I (also called The Lady in Gold or The Woman in Gold) is a 1907 painting by Gustav Klimt. The first of two portraits Klimt painted of Bloch-Bauer, it has been referred to as the final and most fully representative work of his golden phase.Adele Bloch-Bauer (1881–1925) was a wealthy member of Viennese society and a patron and close friend of Gustav Klimt.. Portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer I (also called The Lady in Gold or The Woman in Gold) is a 1907 painting by Gustav Klimt. The first of two portraits Klimt painted of Bloch-Bauer, it has been referred to as the final and most fully representative work of his golden phase. Adele Bloch-Bauer (1881–1925) was a wealthy member of Viennese society and a patron and close friend of Gustav Klimt.. 
St. James Led to His Execution. Author Name: Andrea Mantegna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . St. James Led to His Execution was a painting by Andrea Mantegna. It was destroyed on March 11, 1944, when the Ovetari Chapel in Padua was bombed by the Allies during World War II.The British Museum owns a preparatory drawing for the painting.. St. James Led to His Execution was a painting by Andrea Mantegna. It was destroyed on March 11, 1944, when the Ovetari Chapel in Padua was bombed by the Allies during World War II. The British Museum owns a preparatory drawing for the painting.. 
Knife Edge Two Piece 1962–65. Author Name: Henry Moore. . Author Movement: Bronze Sculpture, Modernism. . Knife Edge Two Piece 1962–65 is an abstract bronze sculpture by Henry Moore. It is one of Moore's earliest sculptures in two pieces, a mode that he started to adopt in 1959. Its form was inspired by the shape of a bone fragment. Moore created the sculpture from an edition of 10 working models in 1962; these working models are now in public collections. Moore created four full-size casts between 1962-1965, with one retained by him. The three casts are on public display on College Green in Westminster, London, Queen Elizabeth Park in Vancouver, and the garden at Kykuit, the house of the Rockefeller family in Tarrytown, New York. Moore's own cast is on display at his former studio and estate, 'Hoglands' in Perry Green, Hertfordshire in southern England. A similar work, Mirror Knife Edge 1977 . Knife Edge Two Piece 1962–65 is an abstract bronze sculpture by Henry Moore. It is one of Moore's earliest sculptures in two pieces, a mode that he started to adopt in 1959. Its form was inspired by the shape of a bone fragment. Moore created the sculpture from an edition of 10 working models in 1962; these working models are now in public collections. Moore created four full-size casts between 1962-1965, with one retained by him. The three casts are on public display on College Green in Westminster, London, Queen Elizabeth Park in Vancouver, and the garden at Kykuit, the house of the Rockefeller family in Tarrytown, New York. Moore's own cast is on display at his former studio and estate, 'Hoglands' in Perry Green, Hertfordshire in southern England. A similar work, Mirror Knife Edge 1977 (or Knife Edge Mirror Two Piece), is displayed at the entrance to I. M. Pei's east wing of the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. The Westminster cast was donated by Moore through the Contemporary Art Society to what he believed was the City of London, but its actual ownership was undetermined for many years. The Westminster cast subsequently fell into disrepair, and was restored in 2013 after it became part of the British Parliamentary Art Collection; it was granted a Grade II* listing in January 2016.. 
Wedding dress of Princess Margaret. Author Name: Norman Hartnell. . . The wedding dress of Princess Margaret, the sister of Queen Elizabeth II, was worn at her wedding to photographer Antony Armstrong-Jones on May 6 1960 at Westminster Abbey. The wedding dress was designed by Norman Hartnell, the favoured couturier of the royals, and was made from silk organza. The skirt comprised some 30 metres of fabric. Hartnell specifically kept the adornments of the dress such as the crystal embellishments and beading to a minimum in order to suit Margaret's petite frame.Vogue described the dress as "stunningly tailored."  Another author called it "a study in simplicity." In 1960, Life magazine named it "the simplest royal wedding gown in history." It has also been described as one of Hartnell's most beautiful and sophisticated pieces.. The wedding dress of Princess Margaret, the sister of Queen Elizabeth II, was worn at her wedding to photographer Antony Armstrong-Jones on May 6 1960 at Westminster Abbey. The wedding dress was designed by Norman Hartnell, the favoured couturier of the royals, and was made from silk organza. The skirt comprised some 30 metres of fabric. Hartnell specifically kept the adornments of the dress such as the crystal embellishments and beading to a minimum in order to suit Margaret's petite frame.Vogue described the dress as "stunningly tailored." Another author called it "a study in simplicity." In 1960, Life magazine named it "the simplest royal wedding gown in history." It has also been described as one of Hartnell's most beautiful and sophisticated pieces. The dress now belongs to the British Royal Collection and is part of a display of royal wedding dresses at Kensington Palace in London.. 
Polyptych of Perugia. Author Name: Piero della Francesca. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Polyptych of Perugia (also known as Polyptych of St. Anthony) is a complex of paintings by the Italian Renaissance master Piero della Francesca, finished around 1470. It is housed in the Galleria Nazionale dell'Umbria, Perugia, Italy.. The Polyptych of Perugia (also known as Polyptych of St. Anthony) is a complex of paintings by the Italian Renaissance master Piero della Francesca, finished around 1470. It is housed in the Galleria Nazionale dell'Umbria, Perugia, Italy. The work was executed for the new Franciscan convent of Sant'Antonio da Padova in Perugia, most likely in the years following his sojourn in Rome. It portrays the Virgin enthroned with the Child in the central part, flanked by several saints: Anthony of Padua and John the Baptist on the left, Francis and Elizabeth of Hungary in the right. In the cusp is the Annunciation. The upper part of the predella shows the saints Clare and Lucy, while in the lower part are miracles stories of the main Franciscan saints. The central part of the polyptych shows a still archaic formula, both in the composition of the frame and in the gold backgrounds: Piero della Francesca was in fact called to complete a work already begun by a local painter. The figures are impressively robust and full-bodied, the realism of iconography innovative and the perspective of the niche throne on which Mary sits is meticulously worked out Of lesser quality are the predella panels, which are in fact attributed to assistants. More innovative and typical of the artist's style is the Annunciation, set in a bright cloister, whose illusionist view is considered amongst the greatest perspective renderings of Renaissance art.. 
The Hill Climber. Author Name: Decker, Jeff. . . The Hill Climber is a public artwork by American artist Jeff Decker located on the grounds of the Harley-Davidson Museum, which is in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States.. The Hill Climber is a public artwork by American artist Jeff Decker located on the grounds of the Harley-Davidson Museum, which is in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States.. 
Dr. Mark A. Matthews. Author Name: Lewis, Alonzo Victor. . . Dr. Mark A. Matthews is an outdoor 1941 bust depicting the minister and city reformer of the same name by Alonzo Victor Lewis, installed in Seattle's Denny Park, in the U.S. state of Washington.. Dr. Mark A. Matthews is an outdoor 1941 bust depicting the minister and city reformer of the same name by Alonzo Victor Lewis, installed in Seattle's Denny Park, in the U.S. state of Washington.. 
The Potato Harvest. Author Name: Jean-François Millet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Potato Harvest is a painting by the French artist Jean-François Millet.. The Potato Harvest is a painting by the French artist Jean-François Millet.. 
And the Saved World Remembers. Author Name: Dantsig. . . And the Saved World Remembers is a monumental painting by Belarusian artist Mai Dantsig measuring 3.75 m × 7 m (148 × 280 in) and based on the Sistine Madonna by Raphael Sanzio. Dantsig was inspired by the salvage of the Sistine Madonna from the bombing of Dresden during World War II. And the Saved World Remembers depicts the moment when the Sistine Madonna was retrieved by the Soviets. The background shows an army, the left side depicts a postman delivering news of victory amid ruined cities and the right side shows German soldiers among concentration camps. The painting also shows women lamenting their dead and a mine detector. Dantsig spent over ten years working on the painting and completed it in 1985, during the 40th anniversary of the end of World War II in Europe.. And the Saved World Remembers is a monumental painting by Belarusian artist Mai Dantsig measuring 3.75 m × 7 m (148 × 280 in) and based on the Sistine Madonna by Raphael Sanzio. Dantsig was inspired by the salvage of the Sistine Madonna from the bombing of Dresden during World War II. And the Saved World Remembers depicts the moment when the Sistine Madonna was retrieved by the Soviets. The background shows an army, the left side depicts a postman delivering news of victory amid ruined cities and the right side shows German soldiers among concentration camps. The painting also shows women lamenting their dead and a mine detector. Dantsig spent over ten years working on the painting and completed it in 1985, during the 40th anniversary of the end of World War II in Europe. In 2015, And the Saved World Remembers was exhibited in the Saatchi Gallery in London.. 
The Crucifixion of St. Julia. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . The Crucifixion of St Julia is a triptych by the Dutch painter Hieronymus Bosch. Like many Bosch paintings, the date of this work was long disputed, until dendochronologic analysis assigned it to around 1497. It currently resides at the Palazzo Ducale in Venice, Italy.. The Crucifixion of St Julia is a triptych by the Dutch painter Hieronymus Bosch. Like many Bosch paintings, the date of this work was long disputed, until dendochronologic analysis assigned it to around 1497. It currently resides at the Palazzo Ducale in Venice, Italy.. 
Ecce Homo. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . Ecce Homo is a painting of the episode in the Passion of Jesus by the Early Netherlandish painter Hieronymus Bosch, made sometime after 1475. The original version, with a provenance in collections in Ghent, is in the Städel Museum in Frankfurt; a copy is held the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston. The painting takes its title from the Latin words Ecce Homo, "Behold the Man" spoken by the Roman Prefect Pontius Pilate when Jesus is paraded before a baying, angry mob in Jerusalem before he is sentenced to be crucified.. Ecce Homo is a painting of the episode in the Passion of Jesus by the Early Netherlandish painter Hieronymus Bosch, made sometime after 1475. The original version, with a provenance in collections in Ghent, is in the Städel Museum in Frankfurt; a copy is held the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston. The painting takes its title from the Latin words Ecce Homo, "Behold the Man" spoken by the Roman Prefect Pontius Pilate when Jesus is paraded before a baying, angry mob in Jerusalem before he is sentenced to be crucified.. 
Winston Churchill. Author Name: McVey, William. . . Winston Churchill is a portrait sculpture by William M. McVey. It is constructed of cast bronze.. Winston Churchill is a portrait sculpture by William M. McVey. It is constructed of cast bronze.. 
The Defense of the Sampo. Author Name: Akseli Gallen-Kallela. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Defense of the Sampo (Sammon puolustus) is an 1896 Romantic nationalist painting by Finnish painter Akseli Gallen-Kallela. The painting illustrates a passage from the Kalevala, the Finnish national epic compiled by Elias Lönnrot in the 19th century.. The Defense of the Sampo (Sammon puolustus) is an 1896 Romantic nationalist painting by Finnish painter Akseli Gallen-Kallela. The painting illustrates a passage from the Kalevala, the Finnish national epic compiled by Elias Lönnrot in the 19th century. The scene portrayed is taken from the 43rd song of the epic, where the hero Väinämöinen, seen wielding a sword, has stolen the precious artifact Sampo from the evil witch Louhi, and she, having taken the form of a giant bird, is trying to reclaim it. The battle for the Sampo is also given a deeper connotation as a battle for the soul of Finland.. 
Fano Altarpiece. Author Name: Pietro Perugino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Fano Altarpiece is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Pietro Perugino, executed in 1497, and housed in the church of Santa Maria Nuova, Fano, central Italy. It also includes a lunette with a Pietà and several predella panels.Perugino had already painted an Annunciation in 1488-1490. Several scholars have supposed that a young Raphael collaborated on the predella.. The Fano Altarpiece is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Pietro Perugino, executed in 1497, and housed in the church of Santa Maria Nuova, Fano, central Italy. It also includes a lunette with a Pietà and several predella panels. Perugino had already painted an Annunciation in 1488-1490. Several scholars have supposed that a young Raphael collaborated on the predella.. 
Malchiostro Annunciation. Author Name: Titian. . . Malchiostro Annunciation is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Titian, completed around 1520, and housed in the Cathedral of Treviso, northern Italy.The Malchiostro Chapel, located to the left of the high altar of the Cathedral of Treviso, near the sacristy, was commissioned by Broccardo Malchiostro, secretary of the bishop and humanist Bernardo de' Rossi. Designed by Tullio of  Antonio Lombardo, it was completed in 1519 and frescoed by Il Pordenone until 1520. The decoration was completed in around 1523, and this Annunciation was executed by Titian around that period, perhaps with the help of Paris Bordone.. Malchiostro Annunciation is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Titian, completed around 1520, and housed in the Cathedral of Treviso, northern Italy. The Malchiostro Chapel, located to the left of the high altar of the Cathedral of Treviso, near the sacristy, was commissioned by Broccardo Malchiostro, secretary of the bishop and humanist Bernardo de' Rossi. Designed by Tullio of Antonio Lombardo, it was completed in 1519 and frescoed by Il Pordenone until 1520. The decoration was completed in around 1523, and this Annunciation was executed by Titian around that period, perhaps with the help of Paris Bordone. The face of the donor was possibly repainted after 1526. Lorenzo Lotto was inspired by this work for his Recanati Annunciation. The painting depicts the Annunciation in a church with a chessboard pavement. Titian, instead of painting the angel on the left and Mary on the right as usual, moved the Madonna into the foreground with the angel behind, pushed towards Mary by the divine light behind him. At the center, kneeling, is the donor, put in a rather far position from the viewer.. 
San Giacomo dell'Orio Altarpiece. Author Name: Lorenzo Lotto. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The San Giacomo dell'Orio Altarpiece (or Madonna and Four Saints) is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Lorenzo Lotto, dating from 1546 and housed in the church of San Giacomo dell'Orio in Venice. It is signed and dated on the cartouche hanging at the throne's base, reading "In tempo de Maistro Defendi de Federigo et compagni 1546 Lor. Lot". The canvas is one of the last works executed by Lotto in Venice, before moving to the Marche.. The San Giacomo dell'Orio Altarpiece (or Madonna and Four Saints) is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Lorenzo Lotto, dating from 1546 and housed in the church of San Giacomo dell'Orio in Venice. It is signed and dated on the cartouche hanging at the throne's base, reading "In tempo de Maistro Defendi de Federigo et compagni 1546 Lor. Lot". The canvas is one of the last works executed by Lotto in Venice, before moving to the Marche.. 
The Rocky Mountains, Lander's Peak. Author Name: Albert Bierstadt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Hudson_River_School. . The Rocky Mountains, Lander's Peak is an 1863 landscape oil painting by the German-American painter Albert Bierstadt. It is based on sketches made during Bierstadt's travels with Frederick W. Lander's Honey Road Survey Party in 1859. The painting shows Lander's Peak in the Wyoming Range of the Rocky Mountains, with an encampment of Native Americans in the foreground. It has been compared to, and exhibited with, The Heart of the Andes by Frederic Edwin Church. Lander's Peak immediately became a critical and popular success and sold in 1865 for $25,000.. The Rocky Mountains, Lander's Peak is an 1863 landscape oil painting by the German-American painter Albert Bierstadt. It is based on sketches made during Bierstadt's travels with Frederick W. Lander's Honey Road Survey Party in 1859. The painting shows Lander's Peak in the Wyoming Range of the Rocky Mountains, with an encampment of Native Americans in the foreground. It has been compared to, and exhibited with, The Heart of the Andes by Frederic Edwin Church. Lander's Peak immediately became a critical and popular success and sold in 1865 for $25,000.. 
Mariana. Author Name: Sir John Everett Millais, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pre-Raphaelite_Brotherhood. . Mariana is an 1851 oil-on-wood painting by John Everett Millais. The image is based on the solitary Mariana from William Shakespeare’s Measure for Measure, written between 1601 and 1606. In the play, Mariana was to be married, but was rejected when her dowry was lost in a shipwreck. The painting is regarded as an example of Millais' "precision, attention to detail, and stellar ability as a colorist".. Mariana is an 1851 oil-on-wood painting by John Everett Millais. The image is based on the solitary Mariana from William Shakespeare’s Measure for Measure, written between 1601 and 1606. In the play, Mariana was to be married, but was rejected when her dowry was lost in a shipwreck. The painting is regarded as an example of Millais' "precision, attention to detail, and stellar ability as a colorist".. 
The Submission of Prince Dipo Negoro to General De Kock. Author Name: Nicolaas Pieneman. . . The Submission of Prince Dipo Negoro to General De Kock (Dutch: De onderwerping van Diepo Negoro aan luitenant-generaal baron De Kock) is an oil painting on canvas painted by Nicolaas Pieneman between 1830 and 1835. It depicts, from a victorious Dutch colonial perspective, the capture of Prince Diponegoro in 1830, which signaled the end of the Java War (1825–1830).. The Submission of Prince Dipo Negoro to General De Kock (Dutch: De onderwerping van Diepo Negoro aan luitenant-generaal baron De Kock) is an oil painting on canvas painted by Nicolaas Pieneman between 1830 and 1835. It depicts, from a victorious Dutch colonial perspective, the capture of Prince Diponegoro in 1830, which signaled the end of the Java War (1825–1830).. 
Christ in the House of Martha and Mary. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . Christ in the House of Martha and Mary is a painting finished in 1655 by the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer. It is housed in the National Gallery of Scotland in Edinburgh. It is the largest painting by Vermeer and one of the very few with an overt religious motive. The story of Christ visiting the household of the two sisters Mary and Martha goes back to the New Testament. The work has also been called Christ in the House of Mary and Martha (reversing the last two names).. Christ in the House of Martha and Mary is a painting finished in 1655 by the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer. It is housed in the National Gallery of Scotland in Edinburgh. It is the largest painting by Vermeer and one of the very few with an overt religious motive. The story of Christ visiting the household of the two sisters Mary and Martha goes back to the New Testament. The work has also been called Christ in the House of Mary and Martha (reversing the last two names).. 
Jubilee bust of Queen Victoria. Author Name: Francis John Williamson. . . The Jubilee bust of Queen Victoria is a sculpted bust of Queen Victoria, made as an official commemoration her 1887 golden jubilee by the sculptor Francis John Williamson. Many copes were made, and distributed throughout the British Empire.Many other busts of Victoria were carved, including others commemorating her golden and other jubilees, and these should not be confused with the Williamson Jubilee bust.. The Jubilee bust of Queen Victoria is a sculpted bust of Queen Victoria, made as an official commemoration her 1887 golden jubilee by the sculptor Francis John Williamson. Many copes were made, and distributed throughout the British Empire. Many other busts of Victoria were carved, including others commemorating her golden and other jubilees, and these should not be confused with the Williamson Jubilee bust.. 
La traversée difficile. Author Name: René Magritte. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Surrealism. . The Difficult Crossing (La traversée difficile) is the name given to two oil-on-canvas paintings by the Belgian surrealist René Magritte. The original version was completed in 1926 during Magritte's early prolific years of surrealism and is currently held in a private collection. A later version was completed in 1963 and is also held in a private collection.. The Difficult Crossing (La traversée difficile) is the name given to two oil-on-canvas paintings by the Belgian surrealist René Magritte. The original version was completed in 1926 during Magritte's early prolific years of surrealism and is currently held in a private collection. A later version was completed in 1963 and is also held in a private collection.. 
Christ in the House of Martha and Mary. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Christ in the House of Martha and Mary is an oil-on-canvas painting from Spanish artist Diego Velázquez, dating to his Seville period. Housed in the National Gallery, London, United Kingdom, it was painted in 1618, shortly after he completed his apprenticeship with Pacheco. At this time, Velázquez was experimenting with the potential of the bodegones, a form of genre painting set in taverns (the meaning of bodegon) or kitchens which was frequently used to relate scenes of contemporary Spain to themes and stories from the Bible. Often they contained depictions of people working with food and drink.. Christ in the House of Martha and Mary is an oil-on-canvas painting from Spanish artist Diego Velázquez, dating to his Seville period. Housed in the National Gallery, London, United Kingdom, it was painted in 1618, shortly after he completed his apprenticeship with Pacheco. At this time, Velázquez was experimenting with the potential of the bodegones, a form of genre painting set in taverns (the meaning of bodegon) or kitchens which was frequently used to relate scenes of contemporary Spain to themes and stories from the Bible. Often they contained depictions of people working with food and drink.. 
Feast of the Rosary. Author Name: Albrecht Dürer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Feast of the Rosary (German: Rosenkranzfest) is a 1506 oil painting by Albrecht Dürer, now in the National Gallery, Prague, Czech Republic.. The Feast of the Rosary (German: Rosenkranzfest) is a 1506 oil painting by Albrecht Dürer, now in the National Gallery, Prague, Czech Republic.. 
Le rideau jaune. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . Le rideau jaune is a painting by Henri Matisse painted in 1915. Its size is 57½ × 38⅛" (146 × 97 cm).It is currently in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art, New York. It was donated to them as a gift of Jo Carole and Ronald S. Lauder, Nelson Rockefeller Bequest, gift of Mr. and Mrs. William H. Weintraub, and Mary Sisler Bequest, all by exchange.. Le rideau jaune is a painting by Henri Matisse painted in 1915. Its size is 57½ × 38⅛" (146 × 97 cm). It is currently in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art, New York. It was donated to them as a gift of Jo Carole and Ronald S. Lauder, Nelson Rockefeller Bequest, gift of Mr. and Mrs. William H. Weintraub, and Mary Sisler Bequest, all by exchange.. 
A Young Tiger Playing with its Mother. Author Name: Eugène Delacroix. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . A Young Tiger Playing with its Mother is a painting of 1830-31 by French artist Eugène Delacroix depicting two enormous tigers "playing" with each other. Painted early in his career, it shows how the artist was attracted to animal subjects in this period. The painting was exhibited at the Salon of 1831, and archives of Delacroix's will executor, Achille Piron, revealed that the painter had paid 1,200 francs to insure it. It belonged to M. Maurice Cottier and now is on display at Room 77 of Louvre in Paris.. A Young Tiger Playing with its Mother is a painting of 1830-31 by French artist Eugène Delacroix depicting two enormous tigers "playing" with each other. Painted early in his career, it shows how the artist was attracted to animal subjects in this period. The painting was exhibited at the Salon of 1831, and archives of Delacroix's will executor, Achille Piron, revealed that the painter had paid 1,200 francs to insure it. It belonged to M. Maurice Cottier and now is on display at Room 77 of Louvre in Paris.. 
Forest and Dove. Author Name: Max Ernst. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dada. . Forest and Dove (1927) is a painting by the German surrealist Max Ernst. It depicts a nocturnal scene of a forest of bizarre, abstract trees. In the thick of the forest is a childlike depiction of a dove.Both the forest and dove themes have appeared several times in Ernst’s works. According to an analysis by the Tate Gallery in London the forest image represents the forest near Ernst’s childhood home which inspired a sense of ‘enchantment and terror’ in the artist. The same analysis also states that the dove represents Ernst himself.. Forest and Dove (1927) is a painting by the German surrealist Max Ernst. It depicts a nocturnal scene of a forest of bizarre, abstract trees. In the thick of the forest is a childlike depiction of a dove. Both the forest and dove themes have appeared several times in Ernst’s works. According to an analysis by the Tate Gallery in London the forest image represents the forest near Ernst’s childhood home which inspired a sense of ‘enchantment and terror’ in the artist. The same analysis also states that the dove represents Ernst himself. This painting has a heavily textured and three-dimensional appearance. This is owed to a technique called grattage. Grattage was invented by Ernst and the Spanish surrealist Joan Miró. This technique involves scraping the paint across the canvas so that the paint takes on the imprints of objects placed beneath the canvas.. 
Olympus. Author Name: Ginnever, Charles. . . Olympus is a public art work by American artist Charles Ginnever located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture is an abstract made of weathering steel arranged in triangular shapes which rise successively in height; it is installed on the lawn.. Olympus is a public art work by American artist Charles Ginnever located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture is an abstract made of weathering steel arranged in triangular shapes which rise successively in height; it is installed on the lawn.. 
Apparition of the Virgin to St Bernard. Author Name: Filippino Lippi. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Apparition of the Virgin to St. Bernard is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Filippino Lippi, dated 1480. It is housed in the Badia Fiorentina, a church in Florence.The picture was commissioned for the chapel of Francesco del Pugliese by the latter's son Piero, who is portrayed in the lower right corner in the traditional praying posture of the donor.A scroll on a rock contains a verse by the 3rd century AD stoic writer Epictetus: Sustine et abstine ("Carry on and abstain"), a hint to Bernard's teachings.. Apparition of the Virgin to St. Bernard is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Filippino Lippi, dated 1480. It is housed in the Badia Fiorentina, a church in Florence. The picture was commissioned for the chapel of Francesco del Pugliese by the latter's son Piero, who is portrayed in the lower right corner in the traditional praying posture of the donor. It is one of the most admired Lippi's works, due to its powerful, Flemish-inspired chromatism and attention to details, which contribute in turning the mystical apparition of the Virgin to St. Bernard into an everyday life scene. The composition is set in a rocky landscape in which the saint, while writing on his lectern, is suddenly visited by the Virgin. Behind Bernard's shoulders is depicted the demon biting his chains: this is a reference to a medieval hymn celebrating the Virgin as the liberator of humanity from the chains of their sins. A scroll on a rock contains a verse by the 3rd century AD stoic writer Epictetus: Sustine et abstine ("Carry on and abstain"), a hint to Bernard's teachings. Some scholars have identified in the faces of the Virgin and the angels on the left the portraits of the committent's wife and sons. 
Marriage à-la-mode: 5. The Bagnio. Author Name: William  Hogarth. . . The Bagnio is the fifth canvas in the series of six satirical paintings known as Marriage à-la-mode painted by William Hogarth.The new Earl catches his wife with her lover, Silvertongue, and is fatally wounded by the scoundrel who makes his escape through the window.. The Bagnio is the fifth canvas in the series of six satirical paintings known as Marriage à-la-mode painted by William Hogarth. The new Earl catches his wife with her lover, Silvertongue, and is fatally wounded by the scoundrel who makes his escape through the window. This episode takes place in the Turk's Head Bagnio in Bow Street, Covent Garden, identified by a bill on the floor by the upturned table on the left. The Turk's Head actually existed and was kept by a Mrs Earl. "Bagnio" was originally a word used to describe a coffee house which offered Turkish baths, but by Hogarth's time it signified a place where rooms could be taken for the night with no questions asked.. 
The Sorceress. Author Name: John William Waterhouse. . . The Sorceress is a painting by John William Waterhouse completed between 1911 and 1915. It is his third depiction, after Circe Offering the Cup to Ulysses (1891) and Circe Invidiosa (1892), of the Greek mythological character, Circe, and her name is on the back of the canvas. The inclusion of leopards and the loom offer further evidence that the painting is of Circe.An oil study for The Sorceress (c. 1911, 61x51cm, in a private collection) shows a model with dark brown hair. For the final scene, Circe is depicted as a redhead.. The Sorceress is a painting by John William Waterhouse completed between 1911 and 1915. It is his third depiction, after Circe Offering the Cup to Ulysses (1891) and Circe Invidiosa (1892), of the Greek mythological character, Circe, and her name is on the back of the canvas. The inclusion of leopards and the loom offer further evidence that the painting is of Circe. An oil study for The Sorceress (c. 1911, 61x51cm, in a private collection) shows a model with dark brown hair. For the final scene, Circe is depicted as a redhead.. 
La Femme au Cheval. Author Name: Jean Metzinger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . La Femme au Cheval (also known as Woman with Horse and L'Écuyère) is a large oil painting created toward the end of 1911 by the French artist Jean Metzinger (1883–1956). The work was exhibited in Paris at the Salon des Indépendants (20 March–16 May) in 1912 and the Salon de la Section d'Or, 1912. The following year La Femme au Cheval was reproduced in The Cubist Painters, Aesthetic Meditations by Guillaume Apollinaire (1913).. La Femme au Cheval (also known as Woman with Horse and L'Écuyère) is a large oil painting created toward the end of 1911 by the French artist Jean Metzinger (1883–1956). The work was exhibited in Paris at the Salon des Indépendants (20 March–16 May) in 1912 and the Salon de la Section d'Or, 1912. The following year La Femme au Cheval was reproduced in The Cubist Painters, Aesthetic Meditations by Guillaume Apollinaire (1913). The artist has broken down the picture plane into facets, presenting multiple aspects of the subject simultaneously. This concept first pronounced by Metzinger in 1910—since considered a founding principle of Cubism—would soon find its way into the foundations of the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics; the fact that a complete description of one and the same subject may require diverse points of view which defy a unique description. The painting was owned by the poet Joseph Houot (known as Jacques Nayral). It was presumably bought by a Danish collector in 1918. The painting was subsequently sold at auction through art dealer Kai Grunth hos Winkel & Magnussen, auction no. 108, February 19, 1932, lot no. 119. Purchased by Danish physicist Niels Bohr. After his death Woman with Horse was sold by his widow Margrethe Bohr (through Ernest Bohr) to the Statens Museum for Kunst in Copenhagen. It is now in the Royal Collection of Paintings and Sculpture at the museum.. 
Portrait of Madame X. Author Name: John Singer Sargent. . . Madame X or Portrait of Madame X is the informal title of a portrait painting by John Singer Sargent of a young socialite named Virginie Amélie Avegno Gautreau, wife of Pierre Gautreau.The model was an American expatriate who married a French banker, and became notorious in Parisian high society for her beauty and rumored infidelities. She wore lavender powder and prided herself on her appearance.. Madame X or Portrait of Madame X is the informal title of a portrait painting by John Singer Sargent of a young socialite named Virginie Amélie Avegno Gautreau, wife of Pierre Gautreau. The model was an American expatriate who married a French banker, and became notorious in Parisian high society for her beauty and rumored infidelities. She wore lavender powder and prided herself on her appearance. Madame X was painted not as a commission, but at the request of Sargent. It is a study in opposition. Sargent shows a woman posing in a black satin dress with jeweled straps, a dress that reveals and hides at the same time. The portrait is characterized by the pale flesh tone of the subject contrasted against a dark colored dress and background. For Sargent, the scandal resulting from the painting's controversial reception at the Paris Salon of 1884 amounted to the failure of a strategy to build a long-term career as a portrait painter in France, though it may have helped him establish a successful career in Britain and America.. 
Saint Augustine in His Study. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Saint Augustine in His Study is a painting of Augustine of Hippo executed in 1480 by Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli. It is in the church of Ognissanti in Florence.. Saint Augustine in His Study is a painting of Augustine of Hippo executed in 1480 by Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli. It is in the church of Ognissanti in Florence.. 
Peace Monument. Author Name: Simmons, Franklin. . . The Peace Monument, also known as the Naval Monument or Civil War Sailors Monument, stands on the grounds of the United States Capitol in Peace Circle at First Street, N.W., and Pennsylvania Avenue, Washington, D.C. The 44 foot (13.4 m) high white marble memorial was erected from 1877-1878 to commemorate the naval deaths at sea during the American Civil War. Today it stands as part of a three-part sculptural group including the James A. Garfield Monument and the Ulysses S. Grant Memorial.. The Peace Monument, also known as the Naval Monument or Civil War Sailors Monument, stands on the grounds of the United States Capitol in Peace Circle at First Street, N.W., and Pennsylvania Avenue, Washington, D.C. The 44 foot (13.4 m) high white marble memorial was erected from 1877-1878 to commemorate the naval deaths at sea during the American Civil War. Today it stands as part of a three-part sculptural group including the James A. Garfield Monument and the Ulysses S. Grant Memorial.. 
A Boyar Wedding Feast. Author Name: Konstantin Makovsky. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Academic_art. . A Boyar Wedding Feast  was painted in 1883 by Russian artist Konstantin Makovsky (1839–1915). The painting shows a toast at a wedding feast following a boyar marriage, where the bride and the groom are expected to kiss each other. The bride looks sad and reluctant, while the elderly attendant standing behind her encourages the bride to kiss the groom. The work won a gold medal at the World’s Fair held in Antwerp, Belgium in 1885, and is considered to be one of Makovsky’s most popular works.. A Boyar Wedding Feast was painted in 1883 by Russian artist Konstantin Makovsky (1839–1915). The painting shows a toast at a wedding feast following a boyar marriage, where the bride and the groom are expected to kiss each other. The bride looks sad and reluctant, while the elderly attendant standing behind her encourages the bride to kiss the groom. The work won a gold medal at the World’s Fair held in Antwerp, Belgium in 1885, and is considered to be one of Makovsky’s most popular works.. 
Road with Cypress and Star. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Road with Cypress and Star (Dutch: Cypres bij sterrennacht), also known as Country Road in Provence by Night, is an 1890 oil on canvas painting by Dutch post-Impressionist painter Vincent van Gogh. It is the last painting he made in Saint-Rémy-de-Provence, France.The painting is part of the large van Gogh collection of the Kröller-Müller Museum, located in the Hoge Veluwe National Park at Otterlo in the Netherlands.. Road with Cypress and Star (Dutch: Cypres bij sterrennacht), also known as Country Road in Provence by Night, is an 1890 oil on canvas painting by Dutch post-Impressionist painter Vincent van Gogh. It is the last painting he made in Saint-Rémy-de-Provence, France. The painting is part of the large van Gogh collection of the Kröller-Müller Museum, located in the Hoge Veluwe National Park at Otterlo in the Netherlands.. 
Rain passed. Author Name: Ovchinnikov, Vladimir. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Retrospective Exhibition "Etude in Leningrad painting of 1940-1980s" (Russian: Этюд в творчестве ленинградских художников. Живопись 1950-1980-х годов) became one of the most notable event in the Saint Petersburg exhibition live of 1994. The Exhibition took place in Nikolai Nekrasov Memorial Museum, located in the historical apartment on Liteyny Prospekt, 36. There were exhibited 143 art works from private collections of 61 importrant masters of the Leningrad School of Painting.. Retrospective Exhibition "Etude in Leningrad painting of 1940-1980s" (Russian: Этюд в творчестве ленинградских художников. Живопись 1950-1980-х годов) became one of the most notable event in the Saint Petersburg exhibition live of 1994. The Exhibition took place in Nikolai Nekrasov Memorial Museum, located in the historical apartment on Liteyny Prospekt, 36. There were exhibited 143 art works from private collections of 61 importrant masters of the Leningrad School of Painting.. 
Lincoln the Mystic. Author Name: James E. Fraser. . . Lincoln the Mystic, also known as the Abraham Lincoln Memorial, is a bronze statue by James Earle Fraser.It is located at Lincoln Park in Hudson County, New Jersey, near the beginning of the Lincoln Highway.. Lincoln the Mystic, also known as the Abraham Lincoln Memorial, is a bronze statue by James Earle Fraser. It is located at Lincoln Park in Hudson County, New Jersey, near the beginning of the Lincoln Highway.. 
Madame Moitessier. Author Name: Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . Madame Moitessier is the title of a portrait of Marie-Clotilde-Inès Moitessier (née de Foucauld) begun in 1844 and completed in 1856 by Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres. The portrait, which depicts Madame Moitessier seated, is now in the National Gallery in London. Madame Moitessier is also the title of a second portrait by Ingres, which depicts her standing; it was painted in 1851 and is now in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C... Madame Moitessier is the title of a portrait of Marie-Clotilde-Inès Moitessier (née de Foucauld) begun in 1844 and completed in 1856 by Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres. The portrait, which depicts Madame Moitessier seated, is now in the National Gallery in London. Madame Moitessier is also the title of a second portrait by Ingres, which depicts her standing; it was painted in 1851 and is now in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C... 
Mural on Indian Red Ground. Author Name: Jackson Pollock. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . Mural on Indian Red Ground is a 1950 abstract expressionist drip painting by American artist Jackson Pollock, currently in the collection of the Tehran Museum of Contemporary Art. It is valued at about $250 million and is considered one of Pollock's greatest works.. Mural on Indian Red Ground is a 1950 abstract expressionist drip painting by American artist Jackson Pollock, currently in the collection of the Tehran Museum of Contemporary Art. It is valued at about $250 million and is considered one of Pollock's greatest works.. 
Three Bronze Discs. Author Name: James Wines. . . Three Bronze Discs is a piece of public artwork by American artist James Wines located in the courtyard of the Golda Meir Library, near Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA. Made of bronze, the sculpture is three circular bronze discs located in a pool of water. It is 10 feet by 8 feet and 5 feet in diameter.. Three Bronze Discs is a piece of public artwork by American artist James Wines located in the courtyard of the Golda Meir Library, near Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA. Made of bronze, the sculpture is three circular bronze discs located in a pool of water. It is 10 feet by 8 feet and 5 feet in diameter.. 
The Sleeping Gypsy. Author Name: Henri Rousseau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Naïve_art. . The Sleeping Gypsy (French: La Bohémienne endormie) is an 1897 oil painting by French Naïve artist Henri Rousseau. It is a fantastical depiction of a lion musing over a sleeping woman on a moonlit night.The painting has served as inspiration for poetry and music, and has been altered and parodied by various artists often with the lion replaced by a dog or other animal. In the Simpsons episode "Mom and Pop Art" Homer dreams of waking up in the artwork with the lion licking his head. A print of the work appears in the movie "The Apartment" above the comatose Fran Kubelik.. The Sleeping Gypsy (French: La Bohémienne endormie) is an 1897 oil painting by French Naïve artist Henri Rousseau. It is a fantastical depiction of a lion musing over a sleeping woman on a moonlit night. Rousseau first exhibited the painting at the 13th Salon des Indépendants, and tried unsuccessfully to sell it to the mayor of his hometown, Laval. Instead, it entered the private collection of a Parisian charcoal merchant where it remained until 1924, when it was discovered by the art critic Louis Vauxcelles. The Paris-based art dealer Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler purchased the painting in 1924, although a controversy arose over whether the painting was a forgery. It was acquired by art historian Alfred H. Barr Jr. for the New York Museum of Modern Art. The painting has served as inspiration for poetry and music, and has been altered and parodied by various artists often with the lion replaced by a dog or other animal. In the Simpsons episode "Mom and Pop Art" Homer dreams of waking up in the artwork with the lion licking his head. A print of the work appears in the movie "The Apartment" above the comatose Fran Kubelik.. 
Waiting III. Author Name: Valérie Goutard. . . 'Waiting III' is a bronze sculpture by French artist Val. The piece can be seen at New Times Square in Taipei where it has been on public display since 2014.. 'Waiting III' is a bronze sculpture by French artist Val. The piece can be seen at New Times Square in Taipei where it has been on public display since 2014.. 
The Misses Vickers. Author Name: John Singer Sargent. . . The Misses Vickers is an oil painting by John Singer Sargent. The painting depicts three young ladies, from the Vickers family, in their estate in Bolsover Hill, Sheffield.The Times of May 22nd 1886 reviewed the painting thus:"Three young ladies, painted in a thin and almost ghostly fashion, gaze straight out of the picture at you. They seem as insubstantial as beings from another world; these faces, medicated rather than painted, these cloudy dresses, these unsubstantial chairs and tables, are they portraits or are they mere suggestions for portraits? Seeing the picture for the first time... one inevitably answers that they are mere sketches; that the artist no doubt intends to carry his work much further. But a second and a third examination bring one to a different mind, and almost, if . The Misses Vickers is an oil painting by John Singer Sargent. The painting depicts three young ladies, from the Vickers family, in their estate in Bolsover Hill, Sheffield. The Times of May 22nd 1886 reviewed the painting thus:"Three young ladies, painted in a thin and almost ghostly fashion, gaze straight out of the picture at you. They seem as insubstantial as beings from another world; these faces, medicated rather than painted, these cloudy dresses, these unsubstantial chairs and tables, are they portraits or are they mere suggestions for portraits? Seeing the picture for the first time... one inevitably answers that they are mere sketches; that the artist no doubt intends to carry his work much further. But a second and a third examination bring one to a different mind, and almost, if not quite, convince one that this art, at once very bold and very subtle, is legitimate; that the painter has really got in this apparent slighting the truth about his sitters, and that no further touches could put more life or more character into face or form or accessories.". 
Suprematist Composition. Author Name: Kazimir Malevich. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Suprematism. . Suprematist Composition (blue rectangle over the red beam) is a painting by Kazimir Malevich, a Russian painter known as a pioneer of geometric abstraction. The painting represents a constellation of geometry and color in space with remarkable austerity.Malevich's masterpiece was sold at a Sotheby's auction for $60 million to an anonymous buyer; it is the most expensive work in the history of Russian art.. Suprematist Composition (blue rectangle over the red beam) is a painting by Kazimir Malevich, a Russian painter known as a pioneer of geometric abstraction. The painting represents a constellation of geometry and color in space with remarkable austerity. Malevich's masterpiece was sold at a Sotheby's auction for $60 million to an anonymous buyer; it is the most expensive work in the history of Russian art. The painting was created in 1916 and stayed with the artist until June 1927. Malevich exhibited his work in the Grosse Berliner Kunstausstellung in Berlin, but was soon to leave for the Soviet Union. The painting soon went to German architect Hugo Häring, who then sold it to the Stedelijk Museum Amsterdam. It stayed there for the next 50 years. It has been shown at various expositions, mostly in Europe. After an extended legal battle over the painting's ownership, which endured for 17 years, the painting was returned to heirs of the artist. In November 2008 they sold it at auction.. 
Café Terrace at Night. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Café Terrace at Night, also known as The Cafe Terrace on the Place du Forum, is a coloured oil painting executed by the Dutch artist Vincent van Gogh on an industrially primed canvas of size 25 (Toile de 25 figure) in Arles, France, mid-September 1888. The painting is not signed, but described and mentioned by the artist in three letters. There is also a large pen drawing of the composition which originates from the artist's estate.The painting is currently at the Kröller-Müller Museum in Otterlo, Netherlands.. Café Terrace at Night, also known as The Cafe Terrace on the Place du Forum, is a coloured oil painting executed by the Dutch artist Vincent van Gogh on an industrially primed canvas of size 25 (Toile de 25 figure) in Arles, France, mid-September 1888. The painting is not signed, but described and mentioned by the artist in three letters. There is also a large pen drawing of the composition which originates from the artist's estate. Visitors of the site can still stand at the northeastern corner of the Place du Forum, where the artist set up his easel. He looked south towards the artificially lit terrace of the popular coffee house, as well as into the enforced darkness of the rue du Palais leading up to the building structure (to the left, not pictured) and, beyond this structure, the tower of a former church (now Musée Lapidaire). Towards the right, Van Gogh indicated a lighted shop as well, and some branches of the trees surrounding the place—but he omitted the remainders of the Roman monuments just beside this little shop. The painting is currently at the Kröller-Müller Museum in Otterlo, Netherlands.. 
Self-Portrait. Author Name: Paul Gauguin. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Self-Portrait with Halo and Snake, also known as Self-Portrait, is an 1889 oil on wood painting by French artist Paul Gauguin, which represents his late Brittany period in the fishing village of Le Pouldu in northwestern France. No longer comfortable with Pont-Aven, Gauguin moved on to Le Pouldu with his friend and student Meijer de Haan and a small group of artists. He stayed for several months in the autumn of 1889 and the summer of 1890, where the group spent their time decorating the interior of Marie Henry's inn with every major type of art work. Gauguin painted his Self-Portrait in the dining room with its companion piece, Portrait of Jacob Meyer de Haan (1889).. Self-Portrait with Halo and Snake, also known as Self-Portrait, is an 1889 oil on wood painting by French artist Paul Gauguin, which represents his late Brittany period in the fishing village of Le Pouldu in northwestern France. No longer comfortable with Pont-Aven, Gauguin moved on to Le Pouldu with his friend and student Meijer de Haan and a small group of artists. He stayed for several months in the autumn of 1889 and the summer of 1890, where the group spent their time decorating the interior of Marie Henry's inn with every major type of art work. Gauguin painted his Self-Portrait in the dining room with its companion piece, Portrait of Jacob Meyer de Haan (1889). The painting shows Gauguin against a red background with a halo above his head and apples hanging beside him as he holds a snake in his hand while plants or flowers appear in the foreground. The religious symbolism and the stylistic influence of Japanese wood-block prints and cloisonnism are apparent. The portrait was completed several years before Gauguin visited Tahiti and is one of more than 40 self-portraits he completed during his lifetime. The work reached the art market in 1919 when Marie Henry sold it at the Galerie Barbazanges in Paris as part of her collected works from the Le Pouldu period. American banker Chester Dale acquired the painting in 1928, gifting it upon his death in 1962 to the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C.. 
Annunciation. Author Name: Fra' Filippo Lippi, O.Carm.. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Annunciation is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Filippo Lippi, finished around 1445-1450. It is housed in the Galleria Doria Pamphilj, Rome.Differences with other depictions of the Annunciation include the angel's position on the right and the use of a very bright source of light, inspired by works of Filippo Brunelleschi and Beato Angelico. On the top are the hands of God, emerging from the clouds and releasing the dove of the Holy Ghost. The dove descends along a luminous trail running toward the Virgin's shoulder, transmitting the Divine Will through materialized light.. The Annunciation is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Filippo Lippi, finished around 1445-1450. It is housed in the Galleria Doria Pamphilj, Rome. Differences with other depictions of the Annunciation include the angel's position on the right and the use of a very bright source of light, inspired by works of Filippo Brunelleschi and Beato Angelico. On the top are the hands of God, emerging from the clouds and releasing the dove of the Holy Ghost. The dove descends along a luminous trail running toward the Virgin's shoulder, transmitting the Divine Will through materialized light. The architectural framework may be the work of an assistant.. 
Bella and Hanna. The Eldest Daughters of M. L. Nathanson. Author Name: Christoffer Wilhelm Eckersberg. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Danish_Golden_Age. . Bella and Hanna. The Eldest Daughters of M. L. Nathanson is a painting by the Danish painter, C. W. Eckersberg. It was painted in 1820.A busy portrait painter, Eckersberg received a commission from M. L. Nathanson to paint two large family portraits. Eckersberg painted the two daughters in two different poses but made them appear strikingly similar, like two variations on a theme. The parrot in the cage may symbolize the longing of the daughters to move from a sheltered home and out into real life.. Bella and Hanna. The Eldest Daughters of M. L. Nathanson is a painting by the Danish painter, C. W. Eckersberg. It was painted in 1820. A busy portrait painter, Eckersberg received a commission from M. L. Nathanson to paint two large family portraits. Eckersberg painted the two daughters in two different poses but made them appear strikingly similar, like two variations on a theme. The parrot in the cage may symbolize the longing of the daughters to move from a sheltered home and out into real life.. 
DreamVision. Author Name: Kanso, Nabil. . . Dreamvision (paintings) is a series of 28 oil paintings made by Nabil Kanso in 1980-81. The subjects of the works in the series are two figures of a man and woman whose characters and relations are reinforced by figurative allusions to their surroundings.. Dreamvision (paintings) is a series of 28 oil paintings made by Nabil Kanso in 1980-81. The subjects of the works in the series are two figures of a man and woman whose characters and relations are reinforced by figurative allusions to their surroundings.. 
Visitation. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Visitation is a c. 1517 painting of the Visitation of the Virgin Mary to Saint Elizabeth by Raphael, in the Prado Museum since 1837. Commissioned by the Apostolic Protonotary Giovanni Branconio at his father Marino's request for their family chapel in the church of San Silvestre in Aquila (Marino's wife was called Elisabeth), it was plundered by the occupation troops of Philip IV of Spain in 1655 and placed at El Escorial.. The Visitation is a c. 1517 painting of the Visitation of the Virgin Mary to Saint Elizabeth by Raphael, in the Prado Museum since 1837. Commissioned by the Apostolic Protonotary Giovanni Branconio at his father Marino's request for their family chapel in the church of San Silvestre in Aquila (Marino's wife was called Elisabeth), it was plundered by the occupation troops of Philip IV of Spain in 1655 and placed at El Escorial.. 
Christ as the Suffering Redeemer. Author Name: Andrea Mantegna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Christ as the Suffering Redeemer is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Andrea Mantegna, dated to c. 1488-1500 and housed in the Statens Museum for Kunst, Copenhagen, Denmark.[citation needed]. The Christ as the Suffering Redeemer is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Andrea Mantegna, dated to c. 1488-1500 and housed in the Statens Museum for Kunst, Copenhagen, Denmark.[citation needed]. 
The Agony in the Garden. Author Name: Giovanni Bellini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Agony in the Garden is an early painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini, who painted it around 1459–65. It is in the National Gallery, London.It portrays Christ kneeling on the Mount of Olives in prayer, with his disciples Peter, James and John sleeping near to him.. The Agony in the Garden is an early painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini, who painted it around 1459–65. It is in the National Gallery, London. It portrays Christ kneeling on the Mount of Olives in prayer, with his disciples Peter, James and John sleeping near to him. The picture is closely related to the similar work by Bellini's brother-in-law, Andrea Mantegna, also in the National Gallery. It is likely that both derived from a drawing by Bellini's father, Jacopo. In Bellini's version, the treatment of dawn light has a more important role in giving the scene a quasi-unearthly atmosphere. Until the mid-19th century Early Renaissance paintings were regarded as curiosities by most collectors. This one had probably belonged to Consul Smith in Venice (d. 1770), was bought by William Beckford at the Joshua Reynolds sale in 1795 for £5, then sold in 1823 with Fonthill Abbey and repurchased by Beckford at the Fonthill Sale the next year (as a Mantegna) for £52.10s. It was bought by the National Gallery for £630 in 1863, still a low price for the day.. 
Drowning Girl. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Drowning Girl (also known as Secret Hearts or I Don't Care! I'd Rather Sink) is a 1963 painting in oil and synthetic polymer paint on canvas by Roy Lichtenstein. Utilizing the conventions of comic book art, a thought bubble conveys the thoughts of the figure, while Ben-Day dots echo the effect of the mechanized printing process. It is one of the most representative paintings of the pop art movement, and part of the Museum of Modern Art's permanent collection since 1971. The painting is considered among Lichtenstein's most significant works, perhaps on a par with his acclaimed 1963 diptych Whaam!. Drowning Girl has been described as a "masterpiece of melodrama", and is one of the artist's earliest images depicting women in tragic situations, a theme to which he often returned in the mid-196. Drowning Girl (also known as Secret Hearts or I Don't Care! I'd Rather Sink) is a 1963 painting in oil and synthetic polymer paint on canvas by Roy Lichtenstein. Utilizing the conventions of comic book art, a thought bubble conveys the thoughts of the figure, while Ben-Day dots echo the effect of the mechanized printing process. It is one of the most representative paintings of the pop art movement, and part of the Museum of Modern Art's permanent collection since 1971. The painting is considered among Lichtenstein's most significant works, perhaps on a par with his acclaimed 1963 diptych Whaam!. Drowning Girl has been described as a "masterpiece of melodrama", and is one of the artist's earliest images depicting women in tragic situations, a theme to which he often returned in the mid-1960s. The painting shows a teary-eyed woman on a turbulent sea. She is emotionally distressed, seemingly from a romance. She declares that she would rather sink in the ocean than call Brad. This is revealed through a thought bubble that provides the narrative element: "I Don't Care! I'd Rather Sink — Than Call Brad For Help!" The narrative element highlights the clichéd melodrama, while its graphics reiterate Lichtenstein's theme of painterly work imitating mechanized reproduction. The work is derived from a 1962 DC Comics panel, while also borrowing from Hokusai's The Great Wave off Kanagawa and from elements of modernist artists Jean Arp and Joan Miró. It is one of several Lichtenstein works that mention a character named Brad who is absent from the picture. Both the graphical and narrative elements of the work are significantly cropped from the source image.. 
The Lugubrious Game. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The Lugubrious Game (or The Mournful Game) is a part oil painting and part collage on cardboard artwork created by Salvador Dalí in 1929. It displays references to feces (in the form of a man wearing soiled underpants), sexual desire, castration and alludes to the "safety" of masturbation[citation needed]. The name of the painting was given by poet, Paul Éluard.. The Lugubrious Game (or The Mournful Game) is a part oil painting and part collage on cardboard artwork created by Salvador Dalí in 1929. It displays references to feces (in the form of a man wearing soiled underpants), sexual desire, castration and alludes to the "safety" of masturbation[citation needed]. The name of the painting was given by poet, Paul Éluard.. 
The Blue Boy. Author Name: Thomas Gainsborough. . . The Blue Boy (c. 1770) is a full-length portrait in oil by Thomas Gainsborough, now in the Huntington Library, San Marino, California.. The Blue Boy (c. 1770) is a full-length portrait in oil by Thomas Gainsborough, now in the Huntington Library, San Marino, California.. 
The Tempest. Author Name: Giorgione. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Tempest (Italian La Tempesta) is a Renaissance painting by Italian master Giorgione dated between 1506 and 1508. Originally commissioned by the Venetian noble Gabriele Vendramin, the painting is housed in the Gallerie dell'Accademia of Venice, Italy.. The Tempest (Italian La Tempesta) is a Renaissance painting by Italian master Giorgione dated between 1506 and 1508. Originally commissioned by the Venetian noble Gabriele Vendramin, the painting is housed in the Gallerie dell'Accademia of Venice, Italy.. 
Pink Chanel suit of Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy. Author Name: Chanel S.A.. . . A pink Chanel suit was worn by Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy on November 22, 1963, when her husband, President John F. Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas, Texas. Made of wool bouclé, the double-breasted, strawberry pink and navy trim collared suit was accompanied by a trademark matching pink pillbox hat. After President Kennedy was assassinated, Jacqueline Kennedy insisted on wearing the suit, stained with his blood, during the swearing-in of Lyndon B. Johnson and for the flight back to Washington, D.C. with the President’s body.. A pink Chanel suit was worn by Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy on November 22, 1963, when her husband, President John F. Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas, Texas. Made of wool bouclé, the double-breasted, strawberry pink and navy trim collared suit was accompanied by a trademark matching pink pillbox hat. After President Kennedy was assassinated, Jacqueline Kennedy insisted on wearing the suit, stained with his blood, during the swearing-in of Lyndon B. Johnson and for the flight back to Washington, D.C. with the President’s body. Jacqueline Kennedy was a fashion icon, and this outfit is arguably the most referenced and revisited of all of her items of clothing and her trademark. There was long a question among fashion historians and experts whether the suit was a genuine Chanel or a quality copy purchased from New York's semiannual Karl Lagerfeld or Chez Ninon collections, resolved in favor of a "Chanel" by her biographer, Justine Picardie.. 
Black on Maroon. Author Name: Mark Rothko. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . Black on Maroon is a 1958 painting by Mark Rothko. It is housed at the Tate Modern gallery in London.. Black on Maroon is a 1958 painting by Mark Rothko. It is housed at the Tate Modern gallery in London.. 
The Virgin appearing to St. Bernard. Author Name: Pietro Perugino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Virgin appearing to St. Bernard is a painting by the Italian artist Pietro Perugino, the main painter of the Umbrian school that was based in Perugia. The panel was executed as an altarpiece for the church of Santa Maria Maddalena dei Pazzi in Florence. It was later acquired in 1829/30 for King Ludwig I of Bavaria from the Capponi in Florence, and eventually made it to the Alte Pinakothek in Munich. The work has been called "one of the high points of European painting in the late 15th century.". The Virgin appearing to St. Bernard is a painting by the Italian artist Pietro Perugino, the main painter of the Umbrian school that was based in Perugia. The panel was executed as an altarpiece for the church of Santa Maria Maddalena dei Pazzi in Florence. It was later acquired in 1829/30 for King Ludwig I of Bavaria from the Capponi in Florence, and eventually made it to the Alte Pinakothek in Munich. The work has been called "one of the high points of European painting in the late 15th century." The painting shows St Bernard of Clairvaux, deep in his studies, being interrupted by a fully corporeal vision of the Virgin Mary, who appears to him in the clear light of day. Four saints surround them. There is a seemingly effortless, perfect symmetry about the composition, yet there is nothing static or artificial about it in any way. The position of the Virgin and St. Bernard's prie-dieu are both slightly off balance, but not enough to ruin the serene harmony of the picture. The faces of the various figures contribute to this quiet beauty, without showing much individualism or realism. Likewise, the colours are bright and radiant, without being flashy.. 
The Deep. Author Name: Jackson Pollock. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . The Deep is an abstract expressionist painting by American painter Jackson Pollock. Pollock here uses black-white combination of dripping paint, only to break it down with touches of yellow. There are many interpretations on meaning of painting, and painting's name, most often as deep and profound void or hole, a viscous cut or dying man, hence the name The Deep.. The Deep is an abstract expressionist painting by American painter Jackson Pollock. Pollock here uses black-white combination of dripping paint, only to break it down with touches of yellow. There are many interpretations on meaning of painting, and painting's name, most often as deep and profound void or hole, a viscous cut or dying man, hence the name The Deep.. 
Race Riot. Author Name: Andy Warhol. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Race Riot is an acrylic and silkscreen painting by the American artist Andy Warhol that he executed in 1964. It fetched $62,885,000 at Christie's in New York on 13 May 2014.. Race Riot is an acrylic and silkscreen painting by the American artist Andy Warhol that he executed in 1964. It fetched $62,885,000 at Christie's in New York on 13 May 2014.. 
Perugia Altarpiece. Author Name: Blessed John of Fiesole, O.P.. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Perugia Altarpiece (Italian: Pala di Perugia) is a painting by the Italian early Renaissance painter Fra Angelico, housed in the Galleria Nazionale dell'Umbria of Perugia, Italy.. The Perugia Altarpiece (Italian: Pala di Perugia) is a painting by the Italian early Renaissance painter Fra Angelico, housed in the Galleria Nazionale dell'Umbria of Perugia, Italy.. 
A portrait of Isabella Brant. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Isabella Brant, a portrait drawing, was executed in Antwerp around 1621 by Flemish artist and diplomat, Peter Paul Rubens (1577–1640). Brant (1591–1626) was Rubens' first wife and modelled for some of his portraits until her untimely death in 1626. The portrait is drawn in black and red chalk with white heightening on brown wash paper.Following Ruben's death, the drawing passed through five known collectors and was eventually acquired by the British Museum in 1893.. Isabella Brant, a portrait drawing, was executed in Antwerp around 1621 by Flemish artist and diplomat, Peter Paul Rubens (1577–1640). Brant (1591–1626) was Rubens' first wife and modelled for some of his portraits until her untimely death in 1626. The portrait is drawn in black and red chalk with white heightening on brown wash paper. This drawing is noted for its 'immediacy and attractiveness' and was the basis for three oil paintings. The first was painted in 1621 by Rubens' pupil, Anthony van Dyck as a gift to his mentor. This portrait now hangs in the National Gallery of Art in Washington. The second, painted by Rubens between 1620 and 1625, is located in the Cleveland Museum of Art and the third also painted by Rubens in 1625, is located in the Uffizi Gallery in Florence. Following Ruben's death, the drawing passed through five known collectors and was eventually acquired by the British Museum in 1893. During re-mounting work in 1964, a rough sketch was discovered on the reverse side of the portrait. The sketch, also in red and black chalk is presumed to be a self-portrait of Rubens and his second wife Hélène Fourment (1614–1673) with Rubens' child.. 
Portrait of an Army Doctor. Author Name: Albert Gleizes. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_art. . Portrait of an Army Doctor (in French Portrait d'un médecin militaire) is a 1914-15 painting by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes. Painted at the fortress city of Toul (Lorraine) while Gleizes served in the military during the First World War, the paintings abstract circular rhythms and intersecting aslant planes announce the beginning of the second synthetic phase of Cubism. The work represents Gleizes's commanding officer, Major Mayer-Simon Lambert (1870-1943), the regimental surgeon in charge of the military hospital at Toul. At least eight preparatory sketches, gouaches and watercolors of the work have survived, though Portrait of an Army Doctor is one of the only major oil paintings of the period.. Portrait of an Army Doctor (in French Portrait d'un médecin militaire) is a 1914-15 painting by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes. Painted at the fortress city of Toul (Lorraine) while Gleizes served in the military during the First World War, the paintings abstract circular rhythms and intersecting aslant planes announce the beginning of the second synthetic phase of Cubism. The work represents Gleizes's commanding officer, Major Mayer-Simon Lambert (1870-1943), the regimental surgeon in charge of the military hospital at Toul. At least eight preparatory sketches, gouaches and watercolors of the work have survived, though Portrait of an Army Doctor is one of the only major oil paintings of the period. As other wartime works by Gleizes, Portrait of an Army Doctor represents a break from the first phase of Cubism. These wartime works mark "the beginning of an attempt to preserve specific and individual visual characteristics while experimenting with a radically different compositional treatment in which broad planes, angled from the perimeter, meet circles." (Robbins, 1964) Rather than based on the analysis of volumetric objects, the artist strove toward synthesis; something that originated in unity. Portrait of an Army Doctor—earlier forming part of the collection of art dealer Léonce Rosenberg—was purchased by Solomon R. Guggenheim at an important Gleizes exhibition at René Gimpel Galerie in New York City, December 1936 to January 1937 (no. 8). The work forms part of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Founding Collection. It was gifted to the museum by Solomon Guggenheim in 1937 (the year of the formation of the foundation). The painting is in the permanent collection of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York City.. 
David. Author Name: Andrea del Verrocchio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Andrea del Verrocchio's bronze statue of David was most likely made between 1473 and 1475. It was commissioned by the Medici family. It is sometimes claimed that Verrocchio modeled the statue after a handsome pupil in his workshop, the young Leonardo da Vinci.The statue represents the youthful David, future king of the Israelites, triumphantly posed over the head of the slain Goliath.The bronze was initially installed in Palazzo Vecchio in 1476.The Victoria & Albert Museum in London also owns a plaster cast of Verrocchio's David.. Andrea del Verrocchio's bronze statue of David was most likely made between 1473 and 1475. It was commissioned by the Medici family. It is sometimes claimed that Verrocchio modeled the statue after a handsome pupil in his workshop, the young Leonardo da Vinci. The statue represents the youthful David, future king of the Israelites, triumphantly posed over the head of the slain Goliath. The bronze was initially installed in Palazzo Vecchio in 1476. Placement of Goliath's head has been a source of some debate for art historians. When exhibited at the National Gallery of Art, the head was placed between David's feet, as is the case in the statue's permanent home, the National Museum of the Bargello, in Florence, Italy. Another school of art historians have suggested that Verrocchio intended for Goliath's head to be placed to David's right, pointing to the diagonals of the ensemble. This placement was temporarily arranged at the National Gallery of Art, as well as Atlanta's High Museum, among others. David was intended as a representation of Florence, as both were more powerful than they appeared, and both the shepherd boy and Florence could be viewed as rising powers. The Victoria & Albert Museum in London also owns a plaster cast of Verrocchio's David.. 
The Last Sleep of Arthur in Avalon. Author Name: Sir Edward Burne-Jones, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Aestheticism. . The Last Sleep of Arthur in Avalon is a painting by Edward Burne-Jones, started in 1881. The massive painting measures 279 cm × 650 cm, and is widely considered to be Burne-Jones's magnum opus.The painting was originally commissioned from Burne-Jones by his patron George Howard, 9th Earl of Carlisle, to hang on a wall in the library of Naworth Castle. Howard shared Burne-Jones's affection for the Arthurian legend and left the choice of topic to the artist. Burne-Jones started working on it in 1881 and continued for 17 years. Within this period, he also designed the stage set for the play King Arthur by J. Comyns Carr that premiered in London in January 1895.. The Last Sleep of Arthur in Avalon is a painting by Edward Burne-Jones, started in 1881. The massive painting measures 279 cm × 650 cm, and is widely considered to be Burne-Jones's magnum opus. The painting was originally commissioned from Burne-Jones by his patron George Howard, 9th Earl of Carlisle, to hang on a wall in the library of Naworth Castle. Howard shared Burne-Jones's affection for the Arthurian legend and left the choice of topic to the artist. Burne-Jones started working on it in 1881 and continued for 17 years. Within this period, he also designed the stage set for the play King Arthur by J. Comyns Carr that premiered in London in January 1895. The 1880s brought the deaths of Burne-Jones's close friends. As they died, the artist experienced mounting isolation and painful awareness of his own mortality. Immersed in his work, Burne-Jones identified himself with Arthur and even adopted Arthur's pose when he himself slept. By 1885, the association with Arthur reached the point where Burne-Jones had to ask Howard to cancel or revise his original commission, replacing the grand scene with a smaller painting focused on the departed king. Howard agreed to cancellation and never requested his downpayment back. Nevertheless, Burne-Jones returned to the original grand painting, and worked on it for the remaining thirteen years of his life. Arthur became increasingly autobiographical for the artist as he withdrew into himself; "above all the picture is about silence." A popular opinion holds that Burne-Jones modelled Arthur's appearance after William Morris, the last survivor of a once-strong progressive art circle, and that Morris's physical decline was a major inspiration for the painting. However, Debra Mancoff argues that there is no record of Morris posing as Arthur and that the king's image was completed when Morris was in vigorous health. Morris died in 1896; Burne-Jones lived for two more years and died before the painting was complete. Just one day before his death Burne-Jones continued work on Arthur. Towards the end of his life he wrote, "I need nothing but my hands and my brain to fashion myself a world to live in that nothing can disturb. In my own land I am king of it." His widow described Arthur as a "task of love to which [the artist] put no limit of time or labor." Following the artist's death, the painting in its frame with Latin inscription passed to a neighbour of Burne-Jones's, whose descendants, John and Penryn Monck, sold the work at auction at Christie's on April 26, 1963 where it was bought by Luis A. Ferré, a politician and founder of the Ponce Museum of Art who would later become Governor of Puerto Rico. Burne-Jones was out of fashion at this time so its export was allowed despite some objections. The Last Sleep of Arthur in Avalon is owned by the Ponce Museum of Art in Puerto Rico. However, it was shown for a short time at the Tate Britain in London while the Ponce museum underwent restoration in 2009-2010. The painting was on view at the Prado Museum in Madrid: The Sleeping Beauty. Victorian Painting from The Museo de Arte de Ponce (February 24, 2009 - May 31, 2009).. 
Triumph of the Virtues. Author Name: Andrea Mantegna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Triumph of the Virtues (also known as Minerva Expelling the Vices from the Garden of Virtue) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Andrea Mantegna, executed in 1502. It is housed in the Musée du Louvre of Paris.. The Triumph of the Virtues (also known as Minerva Expelling the Vices from the Garden of Virtue) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Andrea Mantegna, executed in 1502. It is housed in the Musée du Louvre of Paris. The triumph was the second picture painted by Mantegna for Isabella d'Este's studiolo (cabinet), after the Parnassus of 1497. It portrays a marsh enclosed by a tall fence, ruled over by the Vices, portrayed as hideous figures and identified by scrolls in a typically medieval way. Idleness is chased by Minerva, who is also rescuing Diana, goddess of chastity, from being raped by a Centaur, symbol of concupiscence. Next to Minerva is a tree with human features. High in the sky are the three primary moral virtues required to perfect the appetitive powers: Justice, Temperance and Fortitude.. 
Jeune femme se poudrant. Author Name: Georges Seurat. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neo-impressionism. . Jeune femme se poudrant (Young Woman Powdering Herself) is a circa 1889-90 painting by French painter Georges Seurat.The work depicts his mistress Madeleine Knobloch.Seurat kept his relationship with artist's model Knobloch secret. His relationship to the sitter was concealed when it was exhibited in 1890.Before the painting was publicly shown, it is believed that the frame on the wall depicted a mirror or a self-portrait, showing Seurat himself. On the advice of a friend, Seurat painted it over.The painting is currently in the collection of the Courtauld Gallery.. Jeune femme se poudrant (Young Woman Powdering Herself) is a circa 1889-90 painting by French painter Georges Seurat.The work depicts his mistress Madeleine Knobloch. Seurat kept his relationship with artist's model Knobloch secret. His relationship to the sitter was concealed when it was exhibited in 1890. Before the painting was publicly shown, it is believed that the frame on the wall depicted a mirror or a self-portrait, showing Seurat himself. On the advice of a friend, Seurat painted it over. The painting is currently in the collection of the Courtauld Gallery.. 
Beata Beatrix. Author Name: Dante Gabriel Rossetti. . . Beata Beatrix is an oil on canvas painting by Pre-Raphaelite artist Dante Gabriel Rossetti, completed in 1870. It depicts Beatrice Portinari from Dante Alighieri's poem La Vita Nuova at the moment of her death. The painting's title in English translates to 'Blessed Beatrice'. La Vita Nuova had been a story that Rossetti had found of interest from childhood and he had begun work translating it into English in 1845 and published it in his work, The Early Italian Poets.. Beata Beatrix is an oil on canvas painting by Pre-Raphaelite artist Dante Gabriel Rossetti, completed in 1870. It depicts Beatrice Portinari from Dante Alighieri's poem La Vita Nuova at the moment of her death. The painting's title in English translates to 'Blessed Beatrice'. La Vita Nuova had been a story that Rossetti had found of interest from childhood and he had begun work translating it into English in 1845 and published it in his work, The Early Italian Poets. Rossetti modeled Beatrice after his deceased wife and frequent model, Elizabeth Siddal, who died in 1862. The painting was created from the numerous drawings that Rossetti had made of Siddal during their time together. The symbolism in the painting of a red dove, a messenger of love, relates back to Rossetti's love for Siddal with the white poppy representing laudanum and the means of her death. Several of Siddal's friends found the painting to bear little resemblance to the drawings of her—the facial features were harder and the neck is out of proportion. Beata Beatrix is one of Rossetti's most recognized works and has made Siddal's name to be one that is frequently linked with Dante Alighieri's Beatrice. In an 1873 letter to his friend William Morris, Rossetti said he intended the painting "not as a representation of the incident of the death of Beatrice, but as an ideal of the subject, symbolized by a trance or sudden spiritual transfiguration." This painting is on display in the Tate Britain. It was a gift in memory of Francis, Baron Mount-Temple by his wife, Georgiana in 1889.. 
The Rescue. Author Name: Greenough, Horatio. . . The Rescue (1837–50) is a large marble sculpture group assembled in front of the east façade of the United States Capitol building and exhibited there from 1853 until 1958 when it was removed and never restored. The sculptural ensemble was created by sculptor Horatio Greenough (1805–52) who had previously been commissioned by the U.S. government to create a massive sculpture, George Washington (1832–41) for the Capitol rotunda, also now removed from that site. Due to long-standing controversies, these two sculptures have brought Greenough’s reputation to a very low ebb.. The Rescue (1837–50) is a large marble sculpture group assembled in front of the east façade of the United States Capitol building and exhibited there from 1853 until 1958 when it was removed and never restored. The sculptural ensemble was created by sculptor Horatio Greenough (1805–52) who had previously been commissioned by the U.S. government to create a massive sculpture, George Washington (1832–41) for the Capitol rotunda, also now removed from that site. Due to long-standing controversies, these two sculptures have brought Greenough’s reputation to a very low ebb.. 
Consequences of War. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Consequences of War, also known as Horror of war , was executed between 1638-1639 by Peter Paul Rubens in oil paint on canvas. It was painted for Ferdinando II de' Medici. Although commissioned by an Italian, art historians characterize both the work and the artist as Flemish Baroque. It serves as a commentary on a European continent ravaged by the Thirty Years' War, and the artist employed numerous symbols, both contemporary and ancient, to deplore the state of the continent.. Consequences of War, also known as Horror of war , was executed between 1638-1639 by Peter Paul Rubens in oil paint on canvas. It was painted for Ferdinando II de' Medici. Although commissioned by an Italian, art historians characterize both the work and the artist as Flemish Baroque. It serves as a commentary on a European continent ravaged by the Thirty Years' War, and the artist employed numerous symbols, both contemporary and ancient, to deplore the state of the continent.. 
The Calumny of Apelles. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Calumny of Apelles is a tempera painting by Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli. Based on the description of a painting by Apelles, the work was completed in approximately 1494. It is on display in the Uffizi in Florence.. The Calumny of Apelles is a tempera painting by Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli. Based on the description of a painting by Apelles, the work was completed in approximately 1494. It is on display in the Uffizi in Florence.. 
Students Aspire. Author Name: Elizabeth Catlett. . . Students Aspire is a public artwork by American artist Elizabeth Catlett, located at 2300 6th Street NW on the Howard University campus in Washington, D.C., United States. Students Aspire was originally surveyed as part of the Smithsonian's Save Outdoor Sculpture! survey in 1993.. Students Aspire is a public artwork by American artist Elizabeth Catlett, located at 2300 6th Street NW on the Howard University campus in Washington, D.C., United States. Students Aspire was originally surveyed as part of the Smithsonian's Save Outdoor Sculpture! survey in 1993.. 
Boreas. Author Name: John William Waterhouse. . . Boreas is an oil painting in the Pre-Raphaelite style created in 1903 by John William Waterhouse.. Boreas is an oil painting in the Pre-Raphaelite style created in 1903 by John William Waterhouse.. 
The Gallant Conversation. Author Name: Gerard ter Borch. . . The Gallant Conversation is an oil-on-canvas painting from circa 1654 by Gerard ter Borch (the Younger). A late 18th century French print of the work is titled The Paternal Admonition, apparently believing it showed a father reprimanding his daughter, but modern art historians see it as a conversation between two prospective lovers, either a discussion of a betrothal or, more likely, a customer propositioning a prostitute in a brothel.. The Gallant Conversation is an oil-on-canvas painting from circa 1654 by Gerard ter Borch (the Younger). A late 18th century French print of the work is titled The Paternal Admonition, apparently believing it showed a father reprimanding his daughter, but modern art historians see it as a conversation between two prospective lovers, either a discussion of a betrothal or, more likely, a customer propositioning a prostitute in a brothel.. 
Unique Forms of Continuity in Space. Author Name: Umberto Boccioni. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Futurism. . Unique Forms of Continuity in Space (Italian: Forme uniche della continuità nello spazio) is a bronze Futurist sculpture by Umberto Boccioni. It is seen as an expression of movement and fluidity. The sculpture is depicted on the obverse of the Italian-issue 20 cent euro coin.. Unique Forms of Continuity in Space (Italian: Forme uniche della continuità nello spazio) is a bronze Futurist sculpture by Umberto Boccioni. It is seen as an expression of movement and fluidity. The sculpture is depicted on the obverse of the Italian-issue 20 cent euro coin.. 
Surrender of a Confederate Soldier. Author Name: Julian A. Scott. . . Surrender of a Confederate Soldier is an 1873 painting by Julian Scott in the collection of the Smithsonian American Art Museum. The painting depicts an injured soldier of the Confederate States Army in the American Civil War (1861 to 1865) waiving an improvised flag of surrender. The soldier is accompanied by black man and a woman holding an infant: the black man is presumed to be the soldier's slave, and the woman and infant are presumed to be his wife and child.. Surrender of a Confederate Soldier is an 1873 painting by Julian Scott in the collection of the Smithsonian American Art Museum. The painting depicts an injured soldier of the Confederate States Army in the American Civil War (1861 to 1865) waiving an improvised flag of surrender. The soldier is accompanied by black man and a woman holding an infant: the black man is presumed to be the soldier's slave, and the woman and infant are presumed to be his wife and child.. 
The Mysteries of the Horizon. Author Name: René Magritte. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Surrealism. . The Mysteries of the Horizon (in French, Les mystères de l'horizon) (1955) is an oil on canvas painting by the Belgian surrealist René Magritte.The painting depicts three seemingly identical men in bowler hats. They are in an outdoor setting at twilight. Though they appear to be sharing the same space each one also seems to exist in a separate reality. Each is facing a different direction. In the sky above each figure is a separate crescent moon.. The Mysteries of the Horizon (in French, Les mystères de l'horizon) (1955) is an oil on canvas painting by the Belgian surrealist René Magritte. The painting depicts three seemingly identical men in bowler hats. They are in an outdoor setting at twilight. Though they appear to be sharing the same space each one also seems to exist in a separate reality. Each is facing a different direction. In the sky above each figure is a separate crescent moon. Men in bowler hats appear frequently in Magritte's work starting with his 1926 painting The Musings of a Solitary Walker. They are represented as having undefined or identical personalities. Magritte himself is often seen wearing a bowler hat in photographs.. 
Madonna with Beardless St. Joseph. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Madonna with Beardless St. Joseph is an early painting by Raphael, produced in 1506, now at the Hermitage Museum.. The Madonna with Beardless St. Joseph is an early painting by Raphael, produced in 1506, now at the Hermitage Museum.. 
The Vision of Saint Eustace. Author Name: Pisanello. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/International_Gothic. . The Vision of Saint Eustace is a painting by the early Italian Renaissance master Pisanello, now in the National Gallery in London. The date of the work is unknown and has been assigned by various scholars to different points in Pisanello’s career, but the National Gallery's website currently dates it to "about 1438–42".The painting was bought by the National Gallery in 1895, catalogued as NG 1436, and is today on display in room 55.. The Vision of Saint Eustace is a painting by the early Italian Renaissance master Pisanello, now in the National Gallery in London. The date of the work is unknown and has been assigned by various scholars to different points in Pisanello’s career, but the National Gallery's website currently dates it to "about 1438–42". The work depicts Saint Eustace before a stag, between the antlers of which is a crucifix, as described in the Golden Legend. Although a similar story is told of Saint Hubert, the identification of the figure as Saint Eustace is based on the fact that Pisanello painted Saint Eustace in Sant'Anastasia. Saint Hubert’s depiction in Italian art during this period is also unlikely. Saint Eustace is portrayed as a huntsman dressed in the height of court fashion, wearing a golden tunic and blue headdress. The patron was therefore given the opportunity to appreciate the work as a devotional piece in addition to identifying with the aristocratic pastime of hunting and chivalric ideology. The patron for whom the work was painted is, however, unknown. Suggested patrons include the Gonzaga and Filippo Maria Visconti. Leonello or Borso d’Este, keen huntsmen, have also been proposed. It is possible that the saint could be a profile portrait of the patron. The hunting scene allowed Pisanello to demonstrate his considerable skill in depicting animals and birds in a naturalistic but decorative way. Drawings of them from pattern books were undoubtedly used. The animals are portrayed at various scales and scattered around a ‘tipped-up’ landscape not dissimilar to those visible in Netherlandish tapestries. The landscape's construction also demonstrates a familiarity with illuminations in manuscript hunting treatises, such as the canonical Livre de Chasse by Gaston Phoebus. The purpose of the blank scroll in the foreground of the painting is unknown. There is no evidence to suggest it ever contained any lettering. Its original intention may have been to carry the words of Christ to Saint Eustace or to bear a motto provided by the patron. It has been suggested, however, that the empty scroll is designed to demonstrate the superfluity of words in relation to images and thus refers to a contemporary humanist debate regarding the relative merits of poetry and art. During the course of its history, The Vision of Saint Eustace has been extensively repainted and retouched. Originally, the panel was taller (it has been cut at the top). The landscape has darkened because of the black underpaint and the use of malachite. The gold leaf in the tunic and harness has been regilded. Some animals, like the bear, have been entirely repainted. The saint’s hat and face, however, are well preserved and the pastiglia (low gesso relief for decoration of some details), present in the harness, hunting horn and spurs, is original. The painting was bought by the National Gallery in 1895, catalogued as NG 1436, and is today on display in room 55.. 
Nana on a Dolphin. Author Name: Niki de Saint Phalle. . . Nana on a Dolphin is a public artwork by French sculptor Niki de Saint Phalle. Nana on a Dolphin is part of the National Museum of Women in the Arts New York Avenue Sculpture Project and has also been on display at the home of Nicole Salinger in Provence, France.. Nana on a Dolphin is a public artwork by French sculptor Niki de Saint Phalle. Nana on a Dolphin is part of the National Museum of Women in the Arts New York Avenue Sculpture Project and has also been on display at the home of Nicole Salinger in Provence, France.. 
Portrait of Count Duke de Olivares. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Portrait of Count-Duke de Olivares is a painting by Spanish artist Diego Velázquez, finished in 1635. It is housed in the Hermitage Museum of St. Petersburg.The picture portrays Gaspar de Guzmán, Count-Duke of Olivares, Prime Minister of Spain during the reign of Philip IV. He is portrayed in half bust over a neutral background, the face appearing tired and swollen, markedly aged from the previous, more famous equestrian portrait of Duke de Olivares also by Velázquez. Olivares wears a simple black dress with a white ruff.. The Portrait of Count-Duke de Olivares is a painting by Spanish artist Diego Velázquez, finished in 1635. It is housed in the Hermitage Museum of St. Petersburg. The picture portrays Gaspar de Guzmán, Count-Duke of Olivares, Prime Minister of Spain during the reign of Philip IV. He is portrayed in half bust over a neutral background, the face appearing tired and swollen, markedly aged from the previous, more famous equestrian portrait of Duke de Olivares also by Velázquez. Olivares wears a simple black dress with a white ruff.. 
Martinengo Altarpiece. Author Name: Lorenzo Lotto. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Martinengo Altarpiece is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Lorenzo Lotto, finished in 1516. It is housed in the church of Santi Bartolomeo e Stefano in Bergamo in northern Italy.. The Martinengo Altarpiece is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Lorenzo Lotto, finished in 1516. It is housed in the church of Santi Bartolomeo e Stefano in Bergamo in northern Italy.. 
The Martyrdom of Saint Sebastian. Author Name: Antonio del Pollaiuolo. . . The Martyrdom of Saint Sebastian is a work by Piero del Pollaiuolo, commissioned by the Florentine Pucci family and now in the National Gallery, London.. The Martyrdom of Saint Sebastian is a work by Piero del Pollaiuolo, commissioned by the Florentine Pucci family and now in the National Gallery, London.. 
Round About. Author Name: Howard, Linda. . . Round About is a public art work by artist Linda Howard located in Milwaukee, Wisconsin at the Lynden Sculpture Garden. The abstract sculpture consists of aluminum bars stacked horizontally; it is installed on the lawn.. Round About is a public art work by artist Linda Howard located in Milwaukee, Wisconsin at the Lynden Sculpture Garden. The abstract sculpture consists of aluminum bars stacked horizontally; it is installed on the lawn.. 
Drosophila Fly Head. Author Name: Wayne Chabre. . . Drosophila Fly Head is an outdoor 1988 sculpture by Wayne Chabre, installed on the University of Oregon campus in Eugene, Oregon, in the United States. The hammered copper sheet high-relief of a fly head measures approximately 3.5 feet (1.1 m) x 3 feet (0.91 m) x 2.5 feet (0.76 m). It was surveyed by the Smithsonian Institution's "Save Outdoor Sculpture!" program in March 1993, though its condition was undetermined. The sculpture is administered by the University of Oregon.. Drosophila Fly Head is an outdoor 1988 sculpture by Wayne Chabre, installed on the University of Oregon campus in Eugene, Oregon, in the United States. The hammered copper sheet high-relief of a fly head measures approximately 3.5 feet (1.1 m) x 3 feet (0.91 m) x 2.5 feet (0.76 m). It was surveyed by the Smithsonian Institution's "Save Outdoor Sculpture!" program in March 1993, though its condition was undetermined. The sculpture is administered by the University of Oregon.. 
The Last Judgment. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . The Last Judgment is a triptych by Hieronymus Bosch and his workshop, created after 1486.The triptych currently resides at the Groeningemuseum in Bruges, Belgium. The outside of the shutters are painted in grisaille, while the inside shutters and center are oil on panel.. The Last Judgment is a triptych by Hieronymus Bosch and his workshop, created after 1486. The triptych currently resides at the Groeningemuseum in Bruges, Belgium. The outside of the shutters are painted in grisaille, while the inside shutters and center are oil on panel.. 
The Adulation of Space. Author Name: René Magritte. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Surrealism. . The Adulation of Space (French: L'éloge de l'espace) is a painting in oil on canvas, 81 × 116 cm, created between 1927-28 by Belgian surrealist artist René Magritte. It is held in a private collection.. The Adulation of Space (French: L'éloge de l'espace) is a painting in oil on canvas, 81 × 116 cm, created between 1927-28 by Belgian surrealist artist René Magritte. It is held in a private collection. The enigmatic title of the present work, as with the majority of them, was suggested by one of Magritte’s friends – the Surrealist poet Paul Nougé. In 1943 Nougé produced a monograph on Magritte in which he wrote about the present painting: ‘One muses over the identical objects, over the possible repetition of the more unusual of them, over the way things have of filling the expanse and the sudden apparition of the terrifying masks of “the end of contemplation” and the women’s bodies closely entwined, which represents “the adulation of space”’. Magritte’s idiosyncratic form of Surrealism emerged in the middle of the 1920s, following a short flirtation with Cubist and Futurist art. The Surrealist techniques and mechanisms espoused by André Breton and his followers were primarily concerned with elucidating dream-like imagery and manifesting the sub-conscious. Magritte's approach eschewed these notions; his art would be wholly rational, and informed by ‘lines of research’, which Paul Nougé categorised as ‘isolation of an object by the frame or some other means; more or less apparent distortion; modification of the substance of the object; change of scale; change of décor’. In The Adulation of Space Magritte has introduced several of these types of manipulation. The repoussoir effect of the amorphic grey structure surrounding the figures frames the truncated forms and obscures the viewer’s perception of scale. Other works from the late 1920s such as La Démon de la perversité and Découverte similarly pervert the natural scale and appearance of objects, whilst retaining an incontrovertible sense of rationality which is preserved by Magritte’s trompe l’œil technique. In 1920 Magritte was introduced to Edouard Léon Théodore Mesens by their mutual acquaintance Karel Maes at the first exhibition of the artist’s Cubo-Futurist work organised by the Centre d’Art in Brussels. Mesens was a man of numerous talents and occupations – a musician, poet, critic and gallerist – who was to become Magritte’s most vociferous supporter and promoter. In the mid-1920s Mesens and Magritte published the short-lived reviews Œsophage and Marie and contributed to the last edition of Francis Picabia’s Dadaist revue 391. Having partly abandoned his musical career Mesens set about selling and promoting avant-garde art, first at the Galerie Manteau, and later at Paul-Gustave van Hecke’s Galerie L’Epoque in Brussels. Mesens and Van Hecke became the principal dealers in Magritte’s work, and as such they sold The Adulation of Space to the fated Galerie Le Centaure in 1929. Soon after the sale the Galerie Le Centaure was forced to close and the stock liquidated and Mesens was able to buy a number of paintings, including the present work. In 1938 Mesens left Belgium and opened The London Gallery (backed by Roland Penrose), with a debut solo exhibition of Magritte’s greatest and latest works. Although the gallery closed in 1950, Mesens continued to champion his friend’s work and retained a large collection of his most important paintings for his own pleasure. The Adulation of Space has remained with his family until the present day.. 
Heurich Mausoleum. Author Name: Amateis, Louis. . . Heurich Mausoleum is a public artwork by sculptor Louis Amateis, located at Rock Creek Cemetery in Washington, D.C., United States. "Heurich Mausoleum" was originally surveyed as part of the Smithsonian's Save Outdoor Sculpture! survey in May 1993. This sculpture is the final resting place of members of the Heurich family.. Heurich Mausoleum is a public artwork by sculptor Louis Amateis, located at Rock Creek Cemetery in Washington, D.C., United States. "Heurich Mausoleum" was originally surveyed as part of the Smithsonian's Save Outdoor Sculpture! survey in May 1993. This sculpture is the final resting place of members of the Heurich family.. 
The Fourth Estate. Author Name: Pellizza, Giuseppe. . . The Fourth Estate is a famous picture painted by Giuseppe Pellizza da Volpedo in 1901, originally entitled The Path of Workers.. The Fourth Estate is a famous picture painted by Giuseppe Pellizza da Volpedo in 1901, originally entitled The Path of Workers.. 
Snow at Argenteuil. Author Name: Claude Monet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Snow at Argenteuil (French: Rue sous la neige, Argenteuil) is an oil-on-canvas landscape painting from the Impressionist artist Claude Monet. It is the largest of no fewer than eighteen works Monet painted of his home commune of Argenteuil while it was under a blanket of snow during the winter of 1874–1875. This painting—number 352 in Wildenstein’s catalogue of the works of Monet—is the largest of the eighteen. The attention to detail evident in the smaller paintings is less evident in this larger picture. Instead, Monet has rendered large areas of the canvas in closely like tones and colours of blue and grey. The application of smaller strokes of greens, yellows, reds and darker blues breaks up these large expanses, and the almost choreographed dispersal of these various colours helps bin. Snow at Argenteuil (French: Rue sous la neige, Argenteuil) is an oil-on-canvas landscape painting from the Impressionist artist Claude Monet. It is the largest of no fewer than eighteen works Monet painted of his home commune of Argenteuil while it was under a blanket of snow during the winter of 1874–1875. This painting—number 352 in Wildenstein’s catalogue of the works of Monet—is the largest of the eighteen. The attention to detail evident in the smaller paintings is less evident in this larger picture. Instead, Monet has rendered large areas of the canvas in closely like tones and colours of blue and grey. The application of smaller strokes of greens, yellows, reds and darker blues breaks up these large expanses, and the almost choreographed dispersal of these various colours helps bind the picture together. Paint at the depicted road surface is thicker than elsewhere in the painting, and impasto is suggestive of the feel of disturbed snow. Most of Monet’s Snow at Argenteuil pictures from the winter of 1874–1875 were painted from locations close to the house on the boulevard Saint-Denis (now number 21 boulevard Karl Marx) into which Monet and his family had just moved. This particular painting shows the boulevard Saint-Denis looking in the direction of the junction with the rue de la Voie-des-Bans, with the river Seine out of sight to the rear, and the local railway station behind Monet’s back as he painted. In December 1879 the painting was acquired from Monet by Théodore Duret. Recalling a conversation with the artist Édouard Manet, Duret years later reported that, ‘One winter he [Manet] wanted to paint a snow scene. I had in my possession just such a piece from Monet. After seeing it, he said “It is perfect! I would not know how to do better”, whereupon he gave up painting snow.’ The picture was acquired from Duret by the art dealers Boussod, Valadon et Cie of Paris in 1892; then by Harris Whittemore of Naugatuck, Connecticut in 1893. Acquavella Galleries of New York acquired the painting in the early 1970s, and then it was purchased by Simon Sainsbury in or around 1973. It was bequeathed by him to the National Gallery, London, in 2006 and it has remained there since.. 
Spring. Author Name: Sir Lawrence Alma-Tadema. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Academic_art. . Spring is an 1894 oil painting by Lawrence Alma-Tadema, currently in the collection of the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles, California.. Spring is an 1894 oil painting by Lawrence Alma-Tadema, currently in the collection of the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles, California.. 
Madonna of the Goldfinch. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Madonna del cardellino or Madonna of the Goldfinch is a painting by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael, from c. 1505-1506. A 10-year restoration process was completed in 2008, after which the painting was returned to its home at the Uffizi in Florence. During the restoration, an antique copy replaced the painting in the gallery.. The Madonna del cardellino or Madonna of the Goldfinch is a painting by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael, from c. 1505-1506. A 10-year restoration process was completed in 2008, after which the painting was returned to its home at the Uffizi in Florence. During the restoration, an antique copy replaced the painting in the gallery.. 
The Ruling Passion. Author Name: Sir John Everett Millais, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pre-Raphaelite_Brotherhood. . The Ruling Passion, sometimes called The Ornithologist, is a painting by John Everett Millais which was shown at the Royal Academy Exhibition in 1885.The painting shows an old man lying on a chaise-longue. He is showing a stuffed bird, a king bird of paradise, to a group of children and a woman. The older girl on the left of the picture is holding a resplendent quetzal, and other specimens are scattered about. The attitude of the children ranges from the enthralled interest of the youngest two to the comparative indifference, almost boredom, of the oldest girl.. The Ruling Passion, sometimes called The Ornithologist, is a painting by John Everett Millais which was shown at the Royal Academy Exhibition in 1885. The painting shows an old man lying on a chaise-longue. He is showing a stuffed bird, a king bird of paradise, to a group of children and a woman. The older girl on the left of the picture is holding a resplendent quetzal, and other specimens are scattered about. The attitude of the children ranges from the enthralled interest of the youngest two to the comparative indifference, almost boredom, of the oldest girl. The work was inspired by a visit that Millais and his son John Guille Millais paid to the ornithologist John Gould shortly before his death in 1881. On the way home, Millais said to his son "That's a fine subject; a very fine subject. I shall paint it when I have time." It was in fact several years after Gould's death before he had time, and the picture as painted is not a representation of Gould or of the actual scene during Millais' visit – the central figure was modelled by the engraver Thomas Oldham Barlow, a friend of the artist, two of the others are professional models, and the two smallest children are Millais' grandchildren (one of whom is William Milbourne James). The painting was well received – the influential critic Ruskin said that it was one of "only three things worth looking at" in the R.A. exhibition.. 
I Know...Brad. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . I Know...Brad (sometimes I Know How You Must Feel, Brad) is a 1964 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein that uses his classic Ben-Day dots and a speech balloon. The work is located at the Wallraf-Richartz Museum in Cologne. It is an example of how Lichtenstein used his artistry to make significant changes to the original comics sources.. I Know...Brad (sometimes I Know How You Must Feel, Brad) is a 1964 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein that uses his classic Ben-Day dots and a speech balloon. The work is located at the Wallraf-Richartz Museum in Cologne. It is an example of how Lichtenstein used his artistry to make significant changes to the original comics sources.. 
Freedom from Want. Author Name: Norman Rockwell. . . Freedom from Want, also known as The Thanksgiving Picture or I'll Be Home for Christmas, is the third of the Four Freedoms series of four oil paintings by American artist Norman Rockwell. The works were inspired by United States President Franklin D. Roosevelt's 1941 State of the Union Address, known as Four Freedoms.. Freedom from Want, also known as The Thanksgiving Picture or I'll Be Home for Christmas, is the third of the Four Freedoms series of four oil paintings by American artist Norman Rockwell. The works were inspired by United States President Franklin D. Roosevelt's 1941 State of the Union Address, known as Four Freedoms. The painting was created in November 1942 and published in the March 6, 1943 issue of The Saturday Evening Post. All of the people in the picture were friends and family of Rockwell in Arlington, Vermont, who were photographed individually and painted into the scene. The work depicts a group of people gathered around a dinner table for a holiday meal. Having been partially created on Thanksgiving Day to depict the celebration, it has become an iconic representation of the Thanksgiving holiday and family holiday gatherings in general. The Post published Freedom from Want with a corresponding essay by Carlos Bulosan as part of the Four Freedoms series. Despite many who endured sociopolitical hardships abroad, Bulosan's essay spoke on behalf of those enduring the socioeconomic hardships domestically, and it thrust him into prominence. The painting has had a wide array of adaptations, parodies, and other uses, such as for the cover for the 1946 book Norman Rockwell, Illustrator. Although the image was popular at the time in the United States and remains so, it caused resentment in Europe where the masses were enduring wartime hardship. Artistically, the work is highly regarded as an example of mastery of the challenges of white-on-white painting and as one of Rockwell's most famous works.. 
The Death of Captain James Cook. Author Name: Johan Zoffany. . . Hawaiian feather cloaks, known as ʻAhu ʻula in the Hawaiian language, were worn with feather helmets (mahiole). These were symbols of the highest rank reserved for the men of the aliʻi, the chiefly class of Hawaii. There are over 160 examples of this traditional clothing in museums around the world. At least six of these cloaks were collected during the voyages of Captain Cook. These cloaks are made from a woven netting decorated with bird feathers and are examples of fine featherwork techniques. One of these cloaks was included in a painting of Cook's death by Johann Zoffany.. Hawaiian feather cloaks, known as ʻAhu ʻula in the Hawaiian language, were worn with feather helmets (mahiole). These were symbols of the highest rank reserved for the men of the aliʻi, the chiefly class of Hawaii. There are over 160 examples of this traditional clothing in museums around the world. At least six of these cloaks were collected during the voyages of Captain Cook. These cloaks are made from a woven netting decorated with bird feathers and are examples of fine featherwork techniques. One of these cloaks was included in a painting of Cook's death by Johann Zoffany.. 
Chair. Author Name: Bassett Furniture Industries. . . Chair is a public artwork designed as an advertisement by Bassett Furniture, located at the intersection of Martin Luther King Ave. and V. Street S.E., in the Anacostia neighborhood of Washington, D.C., United States of America. Chair was originally surveyed as part of the Smithsonian's Save Outdoor Sculpture! survey in 1994. It was once considered the world's largest chair, but has been overtaken by works like Broken Chair in Geneva and the temporary The Writer on Hampstead Heath in London.. Chair is a public artwork designed as an advertisement by Bassett Furniture, located at the intersection of Martin Luther King Ave. and V. Street S.E., in the Anacostia neighborhood of Washington, D.C., United States of America. Chair was originally surveyed as part of the Smithsonian's Save Outdoor Sculpture! survey in 1994. It was once considered the world's largest chair, but has been overtaken by works like Broken Chair in Geneva and the temporary The Writer on Hampstead Heath in London.. 
Statue of Alexander VII. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Statue of Alexander VII is a large sculpture of Fabio Chigi (Pope Alexander VII), designed by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini and executed by a member of his studio, probably Antonio Raggi. It sits in its original location of the Cathedral of Siena. It was begun in 1661 and completed in 1663.. The Statue of Alexander VII is a large sculpture of Fabio Chigi (Pope Alexander VII), designed by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini and executed by a member of his studio, probably Antonio Raggi. It sits in its original location of the Cathedral of Siena. It was begun in 1661 and completed in 1663.. 
The Jewish Cemetery. Author Name: Jacob van Ruisdael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_Golden_Age_painting. . The Jewish Cemetery (c. 1650s) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch landscape painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Detroit Institute of Arts.In this excellent picture, the artist has evidently intended to convey a moral lesson of human life ; and in addition to this, there is a sublimity of sentiment and effect reigning throughout the composition which renders it worthy of the powers of Nicolo Poussin.. The Jewish Cemetery (c. 1650s) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch landscape painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Detroit Institute of Arts. This painting was documented by John Smith in 1835, who wrote: "60. The Cemetery. This grand and affecting picture exhibits the ruins of a church and convent upon the summit of a hill, occupying the whole extent of the view in the second distance, the declivity of which presents a cemetery, interspersed with large stones. On the foreground are a broken tree lying across a rapid stream, a tomb of black marble, with an inscription on it; a row of three sarcophagi extending along the front; and on the left stands a cluster of large umbrageous trees, the verdant hues of whose foliage is contrasted by the leafless trunk of a beech. Three persons in black are seen near a small tomb on the side of the hill, musing amidst the tombs. The grandeur and solemnity of the scene is strikingly enhanced by rolling stormy clouds, in which may be perceived the evanescent colours of a rainbow. 4 ft. 6 in. by 5 ft. 9 in.—C. In this excellent picture, the artist has evidently intended to convey a moral lesson of human life ; and in addition to this, there is a sublimity of sentiment and effect reigning throughout the composition which renders it worthy of the powers of Nicolo Poussin. The Writer has been informed that this picture was purchased by Mr. Huybens (by whom it was imported into England), of a banker at Paris, about the year 1815, for the sum of 20,000 fs., 800l., and sold to Mr. George Gillows, of whose executors it was brought by Mr. Zachary, and was subsequently sold, in the sale of that gentleman's collection, by Mr. Phillips, in 1828, for 870 gs. ; it is now in the possession of Mackintosh, Esq. A duplicate of the preceding picture, but differing in size, and inferior in quality, having become dark from time, is in the Dresden Gallery. 3 ft. by 3 ft. 5 in.—C." This scene is very similar to other paintings of ruins Ruisdael made in this period and these often served as inspiration for later painters of landscape. Later historians have traced earlier drawings by Ruisdael and concluded that the scene is actually a pastiche of two locations; a view of the Jewish cemetery 'Beth Haim' in Ouderkerk aan de Amstel with the ruins of Egmond Abbey (St. Adalbert's Abbey) in Egmond-Binnen.. 
The Harvest Wagon. Author Name: Thomas Gainsborough. . . The Harvest Wagon is the name of two paintings by the English artist Thomas Gainsborough. The first was done around 1767 and is today owned by the Barber Institute of Fine Arts, in Birmingham, England. The later painting was done around 1784 and is part of the collection of the Art Gallery of Ontario. The later painting is the better known of the two. It was donated to the Art Gallery of Ontario by Frank P Wood. It is one of the most prominent pieces in the collection of the AGO.. The Harvest Wagon is the name of two paintings by the English artist Thomas Gainsborough. The first was done around 1767 and is today owned by the Barber Institute of Fine Arts, in Birmingham, England. The later painting was done around 1784 and is part of the collection of the Art Gallery of Ontario. The later painting is the better known of the two. It was donated to the Art Gallery of Ontario by Frank P Wood. It is one of the most prominent pieces in the collection of the AGO. Both paintings depict a group of peasants riding inside a simple wagon through a rural landscape with a collection of nearby animals. A young boy leads the wagon, while a man helps lift a young woman aboard. The painting is set in the area around Gainsborough's adopted city of Bath, where he lived for 14 years of his life. In 1995 the two museums collaborated on a joint show that displayed the two versions side by side, first on display in England and then in Canada. The two paintings of a similar subject done some seventeen years apart show the evolution of Gainsborough as an artist. The later painting is more sedate, the figures more composed and less excited. The Gainsborough scholar Hugh Besley sees landscape, people, and animals as more unified in the later work. He also sees more influence of Reubens on Gainsborough's style and technique, particularly of Reubens's The Descent from the Cross. The woman ascending to the wagon shows a motion opposite to Christ's. Christina Payne has commented on some of the symbolism in the 1784 work, noting that the broken pitcher placed in front of the pregnant passenger may be a symbol of virginity. The earlier painting is also far more intimate to the artist as the women in the wagon are portraits of Gainsborough's own daughters, Mary and Margaret. The first work could not find a buyer, perhaps being too ribald for the art market of the time. It was given to Gainsborough's friend Wiltshire, a mover who transported Gainsborough's paintings from Bath to exhibitions in London. Wiltshire's horses had also served as the model of the animals in the picture. The painting remained in Wiltshire's family until his grandson sold it in 1867. The second painting, done at the height of Gainsborough's fame, was sold to the Prince of Wales, later to become King George IV. It later became part of the collection of American steel magnate Elbert Henry Gary. Upon Gary's death in 1927 his collection was auctioned off, and The Harvest Wagon was one of the most sought-after works. After a competitive auction it was purchased by art dealer Joseph Duveen for $360,000, then the highest price ever paid at auction for a painting in the United States. Duveen later sold it to Canadian art collector Frank P. Wood for $450,000, and Wood then donated it to the Art Gallery of Ontario. In 1959 the painting was somewhat damaged during an attempted robbery when the thieves tried to cut the painting out of its frame.. 
Portrait of Sir Thomas More. Author Name: Hans Holbein the Younger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Northern_Renaissance. . Portrait of Sir Thomas More is an oak panel painting commissioned in 1527 of Thomas More by the German artist and printmaker Hans Holbein the Younger, now in the Frick Collection in New York.The work was created during the period from 1526 when Holbein lived in London. He gained the friendship of the Dutch humanist Desiderius Erasmus, who recommended that he befriend More, then a powerful, knighted speaker at the English Parliament.. Portrait of Sir Thomas More is an oak panel painting commissioned in 1527 of Thomas More by the German artist and printmaker Hans Holbein the Younger, now in the Frick Collection in New York. The work was created during the period from 1526 when Holbein lived in London. He gained the friendship of the Dutch humanist Desiderius Erasmus, who recommended that he befriend More, then a powerful, knighted speaker at the English Parliament. A closely related, though probably not directly preparatory, drawing with bodycolour is in the Royal Collection, and there is a copy in the National Portrait Gallery, probably "painted in Italy or Austria in the early seventeenth century". Possibly this is the version catalogued in the Leuchtenberg Gallery in 1852. Another Holbein portrait of More, part of a large group portrait of his family, is now lost, but several drawings (also mostly in the Royal Collection) and copies survive.. 
Savacou. Author Name: Moody, Ronald. . . Savacou is an aluminium sculpture of a stylised bird by the Jamaican sculptor Ronald Moody. It is sited on the campus of the University of the West Indies in Mona, Jamaica.. Savacou is an aluminium sculpture of a stylised bird by the Jamaican sculptor Ronald Moody. It is sited on the campus of the University of the West Indies in Mona, Jamaica.. 
Ahasuerus and Haman at the Feast of Esther. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The painting Ahasveros and Haman at the Feast of Esther is one of the few works of Rembrandt van Rijn whose complete provenance is known. The origin of the painting can be traced back to 1662, two years after its completion.. The painting Ahasveros and Haman at the Feast of Esther is one of the few works of Rembrandt van Rijn whose complete provenance is known. The origin of the painting can be traced back to 1662, two years after its completion.. 
Afternoon Tea. Author Name: Miller, Richard E.. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/American_Impressionism. . Afternoon Tea is a 1910 oil painting by American artist Richard E. Miller, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. Like many of Miller's paintings, it depicts women in a sunny scene, filled with flowers, depicted in his Impressionist style with a distinct flavor of Japonism.. Afternoon Tea is a 1910 oil painting by American artist Richard E. Miller, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. Like many of Miller's paintings, it depicts women in a sunny scene, filled with flowers, depicted in his Impressionist style with a distinct flavor of Japonism.. 
Cheval rouge. Author Name: Alexander "Sandy" Calder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstraction_(art). . Cheval Rouge is an abstract sculpture by Alexander Calder.Constructed in 1974 of painted sheet steel, it is at the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden.. Cheval Rouge is an abstract sculpture by Alexander Calder. Constructed in 1974 of painted sheet steel, it is at the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden.. 
Nepenthes. Author Name: Daniel James Corson. . . Nepenthes is a series of four sculptures by artist Dan Corson, installed in 2013 along Northwest Davis Street in the Old Town Chinatown neighborhood of Portland, Oregon, in the United States. The work was inspired by the genus of carnivorous plants of the same name, known as tropical pitcher plants. The sculptures are 17 feet (5.2 m) tall and glow in the dark due to photovoltaics.. Nepenthes is a series of four sculptures by artist Dan Corson, installed in 2013 along Northwest Davis Street in the Old Town Chinatown neighborhood of Portland, Oregon, in the United States. The work was inspired by the genus of carnivorous plants of the same name, known as tropical pitcher plants. The sculptures are 17 feet (5.2 m) tall and glow in the dark due to photovoltaics.. 
Abraham Lincoln. Author Name: Henry Kirke Brown. . . Abraham Lincoln is an outdoor bronze sculpture of Abraham Lincoln by Henry Kirke Brown, located at Union Square in Manhattan, New York. Cast in 1870 and dedicated on September 16 of that year, the statue was originally installed at the southwest corner of Union Square, where the sculpture of Mahatma Gandhi stands today. In 1875, a stone and bronze rail fence was constructed around the statue of Lincoln; the fence included an inscription of text from his second inaugural address, “…with malice toward none; charity toward all.” During the 1930 redesign of Union Square Park, the statue was moved to its current location, but the fence remained. The statue is in axial alignment with the Independence Flagstaff and George Washington. It was conserved in 1992.. Abraham Lincoln is an outdoor bronze sculpture of Abraham Lincoln by Henry Kirke Brown, located at Union Square in Manhattan, New York. Cast in 1870 and dedicated on September 16 of that year, the statue was originally installed at the southwest corner of Union Square, where the sculpture of Mahatma Gandhi stands today. In 1875, a stone and bronze rail fence was constructed around the statue of Lincoln; the fence included an inscription of text from his second inaugural address, “…with malice toward none; charity toward all.” During the 1930 redesign of Union Square Park, the statue was moved to its current location, but the fence remained. The statue is in axial alignment with the Independence Flagstaff and George Washington. It was conserved in 1992.. 
The Genius of Victory. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Genius of Victory is a 1532–34 marble sculpture by Michelangelo, produced as part of a design for the tomb of Pope Julius II. It is 2.61 m high and is now in the Salone dei Cinquecento of the Palazzo Vecchio in Florence.. The Genius of Victory is a 1532–34 marble sculpture by Michelangelo, produced as part of a design for the tomb of Pope Julius II. It is 2.61 m high and is now in the Salone dei Cinquecento of the Palazzo Vecchio in Florence.. 
Portrait of a Woman. Author Name: Frans Hals. . . Portrait of a Woman (Marie Larp) is a portrait painting by the Dutch Golden Age painter Frans Hals, painted in 1635–1638 and now in the National Gallery at London.. Portrait of a Woman (Marie Larp) is a portrait painting by the Dutch Golden Age painter Frans Hals, painted in 1635–1638 and now in the National Gallery at London.. 
Wawel Dragon. Author Name: Bronisław Chromy. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neo-expressionism. . Wawel Dragon Statue (Polish: Pomnik Smoka Wawelskiego) is a monument at the foot of the Wawel Hill in Kraków, Poland, in front of the Wawel Dragon's den, dedicated to the mythical Wawel Dragon.. Wawel Dragon Statue (Polish: Pomnik Smoka Wawelskiego) is a monument at the foot of the Wawel Hill in Kraków, Poland, in front of the Wawel Dragon's den, dedicated to the mythical Wawel Dragon.. 
Mnemosyne. Author Name: Dante Gabriel Rossetti. . . Mnemosyne, also titled Lamp of Memory and Ricordanza, is an oil painting by Dante Gabriel Rossetti begun in 1875 or early 1876 and completed in 1881. Jane Morris was the model, and Frederick Richards Leyland bought the painting in 1881 and displayed it in his drawing room with five other Rossetti "stunners." At about the same time Rossetti was painting Astarte Syriaca, a larger painting completed in 1877, with Morris in a very similar pose.. Mnemosyne, also titled Lamp of Memory and Ricordanza, is an oil painting by Dante Gabriel Rossetti begun in 1875 or early 1876 and completed in 1881. Jane Morris was the model, and Frederick Richards Leyland bought the painting in 1881 and displayed it in his drawing room with five other Rossetti "stunners." At about the same time Rossetti was painting Astarte Syriaca, a larger painting completed in 1877, with Morris in a very similar pose.. 
Hotel Lobby. Author Name: Edward Hopper. . . Hotel Lobby is an oil painting on canvas by American realist painter Edward Hopper; it is held in the collection of the Indianapolis Museum of Art (IMA), in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States.. Hotel Lobby is an oil painting on canvas by American realist painter Edward Hopper; it is held in the collection of the Indianapolis Museum of Art (IMA), in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States.. 
The Luncheon on the Grass. Author Name: Édouard Manet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Le Déjeuner sur l'herbe (English: The Luncheon on the Grass) – originally titled Le Bain (The Bath) – is a large oil on canvas painting by Édouard Manet created in 1862 and 1863. The painting depicts a female nude and a scantily dressed female bather on a picnic with two fully dressed men in a rural setting. Rejected by the Salon jury of 1863, Manet seized the opportunity to exhibit this and two other paintings in the 1863 Salon des Refusés where the painting sparked public notoriety and controversy. The piece is now in the Musée d'Orsay in Paris. A smaller, earlier version can be seen at the Courtauld Gallery, London.. Le Déjeuner sur l'herbe (English: The Luncheon on the Grass) – originally titled Le Bain (The Bath) – is a large oil on canvas painting by Édouard Manet created in 1862 and 1863. The painting depicts a female nude and a scantily dressed female bather on a picnic with two fully dressed men in a rural setting. Rejected by the Salon jury of 1863, Manet seized the opportunity to exhibit this and two other paintings in the 1863 Salon des Refusés where the painting sparked public notoriety and controversy. The piece is now in the Musée d'Orsay in Paris. A smaller, earlier version can be seen at the Courtauld Gallery, London.. 
Sarah Siddons as the Tragic Muse. Author Name: Sir Joshua Reynolds. . . Sarah Siddons as the Tragic Muse is a 1784 oil painting by Joshua Reynolds.. Sarah Siddons as the Tragic Muse is a 1784 oil painting by Joshua Reynolds.. 
Snowplow. Author Name: Mark di Suvero. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . Snowplow is an abstract outdoor sculpture by American artist Mark di Suvero located on the grounds of the Indianapolis Museum of Art in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. The sculpture was purchased in 1975 by the Indianapolis Sesquicentennial Commission and first installed in downtown Indianapolis, Indiana in 1977.. Snowplow is an abstract outdoor sculpture by American artist Mark di Suvero located on the grounds of the Indianapolis Museum of Art in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. The sculpture was purchased in 1975 by the Indianapolis Sesquicentennial Commission and first installed in downtown Indianapolis, Indiana in 1977.. 
The Denial of Saint Peter. Author Name: Hendrick ter Brugghen. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Utrecht_Caravaggism. . The Denial of Saint Peter is a painting by Hendrick ter Brugghen, a member of the Dutch Caravaggisti, depicting Saint Peter's thrice denial of Christ as recounted in all four Gospels. It is thought to have been painted after 1625, and thus in the last three years of Ter Brugghen's life; he died in 1629. The painting shows a marked departure from Ter Brugghen's earlier painting in its emphasis on play of light, its baroque quality and a resolved sensibility.. The Denial of Saint Peter is a painting by Hendrick ter Brugghen, a member of the Dutch Caravaggisti, depicting Saint Peter's thrice denial of Christ as recounted in all four Gospels. It is thought to have been painted after 1625, and thus in the last three years of Ter Brugghen's life; he died in 1629. The painting shows a marked departure from Ter Brugghen's earlier painting in its emphasis on play of light, its baroque quality and a resolved sensibility.. 
Aurora Borealis. Author Name: Frederic Edwin Church. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Hudson_River_School. . Aurora Borealis is an 1865 painting by Frederic Edwin Church of the aurora borealis and the Arctic expedition of Dr. Isaac Hayes.The painting measures 56 × 84 1/2 in. (142.3 × 212.2 cm) and is now owned by the Smithsonian American Art Museum.. Aurora Borealis is an 1865 painting by Frederic Edwin Church of the aurora borealis and the Arctic expedition of Dr. Isaac Hayes. The painting measures 56 × 84 1/2 in. (142.3 × 212.2 cm) and is now owned by the Smithsonian American Art Museum.. 
Man and Woman in Front of a Pile of Excrement. Author Name: Joan Miró. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . Man and Woman in Front of a Pile of Excrement (Homme et femme devant un tas d'excréments) is a 1935 oil painting on copper by Joan Miró.. Man and Woman in Front of a Pile of Excrement (Homme et femme devant un tas d'excréments) is a 1935 oil painting on copper by Joan Miró.. 
Adam and Eve. Author Name: Albrecht Dürer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Adam and Eve is a pair of oil-on-panel paintings by German Renaissance artist Albrecht Dürer.Completed in 1507, the work followed a 1504 copper engraving by Dürer on the same subject, one which offered Dürer the opportunity to depict the ideal human figure. Painted in Nuremberg soon after his return from Venice, the panels were influenced by Italian art. Dürer's observations on his second trip to Italy provided him with new approaches to portraying the human form. Here, he depicts Adam and Eve at human scale—the first full-scale nude subjects in German painting.. Adam and Eve is a pair of oil-on-panel paintings by German Renaissance artist Albrecht Dürer. Completed in 1507, the work followed a 1504 copper engraving by Dürer on the same subject, one which offered Dürer the opportunity to depict the ideal human figure. Painted in Nuremberg soon after his return from Venice, the panels were influenced by Italian art. Dürer's observations on his second trip to Italy provided him with new approaches to portraying the human form. Here, he depicts Adam and Eve at human scale—the first full-scale nude subjects in German painting. Adam and Eve's first home was the Prague Castle, the property of collector Rudolf II. During the Thirty Years' War, armies plundered the castle and the panels came to be owned by Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden. His daughter, Christina, gave the work to Philip IV of Spain in 1654. Later King Charles III ordered in 1777 that the painting be hidden in the Real Academia de Bellas Artes de San Fernando. It arrived at its current home, Madrid's Museo del Prado, in 1827, but was not publicly displayed until 1833.. 
Nu à la cheminée. Author Name: Jean Metzinger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Nu à la cheminée, also referred to as Nu dans un intérieur, Femme nu, and Nu or Nude, is a painting by Jean Metzinger. The work was exhibited in Paris at the Salon d'Automne of 1910, and the Salon de la Section d'Or, Galerie La Boétie in Paris, October 1912. It was published in Du "Cubisme", written by Jean Metzinger and Albert Gleizes in 1912, and subsequently published in The Cubist Painters, Aesthetic Meditations (Les Peintres Cubistes) by Guillaume Apollinaire, 1913. Nu à la cheminée was in the collection of G. Commerre (or Comerre, a relative of Albert Gleizes) at the time. The work has not been seen in public since, and its current location is unknown.. Nu à la cheminée, also referred to as Nu dans un intérieur, Femme nu, and Nu or Nude, is a painting by Jean Metzinger. The work was exhibited in Paris at the Salon d'Automne of 1910, and the Salon de la Section d'Or, Galerie La Boétie in Paris, October 1912. It was published in Du "Cubisme", written by Jean Metzinger and Albert Gleizes in 1912, and subsequently published in The Cubist Painters, Aesthetic Meditations (Les Peintres Cubistes) by Guillaume Apollinaire, 1913. Nu à la cheminée was in the collection of G. Commerre (or Comerre, a relative of Albert Gleizes) at the time. The work has not been seen in public since, and its current location is unknown.. 
Adoration of the Shepherds. Author Name: Domenico Zampieri. . . The painting of the Adoration of the Shepherds of c. 1607–10 by the Italian 17th century master Domenichino has been in the National Gallery of Scotland in Edinburgh since 1971, and was previously in the Dulwich Picture Gallery in London.. The painting of the Adoration of the Shepherds of c. 1607–10 by the Italian 17th century master Domenichino has been in the National Gallery of Scotland in Edinburgh since 1971, and was previously in the Dulwich Picture Gallery in London.. 
Reflections. Author Name: Arthur Dove-Helen Torr Cottage. . . Reflections is an abstract oil on canvas painting by American artist Arthur Dove from 1935, currently located at the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, US.. Reflections is an abstract oil on canvas painting by American artist Arthur Dove from 1935, currently located at the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, US.. 
Le Chahut. Author Name: Georges Seurat. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neo-impressionism. . Le Chahut (English: The Can-can) is a Neo-Impressionist painting by Georges Seurat, dated 1889-90. It was first exhibited at the 1890 Salon de la Société des Artistes Indépendants (titled Chahut, cat. no. 726) in Paris, where it eclipsed other works. Chahut became the prime target of art critics, and was widely discussed among Symbolist critics.The painting—representing a quadrille at the Moulin Rouge—influenced the Fauves, Cubists, Futurists and Orphists.. Le Chahut (English: The Can-can) is a Neo-Impressionist painting by Georges Seurat, dated 1889-90. It was first exhibited at the 1890 Salon de la Société des Artistes Indépendants (titled Chahut, cat. no. 726) in Paris, where it eclipsed other works. Chahut became the prime target of art critics, and was widely discussed among Symbolist critics. The painting—representing a quadrille at the Moulin Rouge—influenced the Fauves, Cubists, Futurists and Orphists. Formerly in the collection of French Symbolist poet and art critic Gustave Kahn, Chahut is located at the Kröller-Müller Museum in Otterlo, Netherlands.. 
White on White. Author Name: Kazimir Malevich. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Suprematism. . Suprematist Composition: White on White (1918) is an abstract oil-on-canvas painting by Kazimir Malevich. It is one of the more well-known examples of the Russian Suprematism movement, painted the year after the October Revolution.A critic from the rival Constructivist movement quipped that it was the only good canvas in an exhibition by Malevich's UNOVIS group: "an absolutely pure, white canvas with a very good prime coating. Something could be done on it.". Suprematist Composition: White on White (1918) is an abstract oil-on-canvas painting by Kazimir Malevich. It is one of the more well-known examples of the Russian Suprematism movement, painted the year after the October Revolution. Part of a series of "white on white" works begun by Malevich in 1916, the work depicts a white square, portrayed off centre and at an angle on a ground which is also a white square of a slightly warmer tone. The work measures 31.25 by 31.25 inches (794 mm × 794 mm). Malevich dispenses with most of the characteristics of representational art, with no sense of colour, depth, or volume, leaving a simple monochrome geometrical shape, not precisely symmetrical, with imprecisely defined boundaries. Although the artwork is stripped of most detail, brush strokes are evident in this painting and the artist tried to make it look as if the tilted square is coming out of the canvas. Malevich intended the painting to evoke a feeling of floating, with the colour white symbolising infinity, and the slight tilt of the square suggests movement. A critic from the rival Constructivist movement quipped that it was the only good canvas in an exhibition by Malevich's UNOVIS group: "an absolutely pure, white canvas with a very good prime coating. Something could be done on it." Malevich took the work to Berlin in 1927, where it was displayed at the Große Berliner Austellung. When he returned to Leningrad later that year, Malevich left it with the architect Hugo Häring; in 1930 he passed it on to Alexander Dorner, director of the Provinzialmuseum in Hanover, who put it into storage after the Nazi party came to power in 1933. Malevich did not ask for the work to be returned, and died in 1935 without leaving instructions on the inheritance of his estate. It was put on display at the Museum of Modern Art in New York in 1935, and added to the Museum's collection in 1963; the acquisition was confirmed by the estate of Kazimir Malevich in 1999, using funds from the bequest of Mrs. John Hay Whitney.. 
Bust of Alessandro Peretti di Montalto. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Bust of Alessandro Peretti di Montalto is a portrait sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Executed in 1622 and 1623, the sculpture is currently housed in the Kunsthalle Hamburg, in Germany. Although possibly mentioned by one of Bernini's early biographers, the bust had been considered lost and therefore makes no appearance in Rudolf Wittkower's catalogue of Bernini’s sculptures of 1955. However, the bust was identified in the 1980s and is now considered an authentic work by Bernini.. The Bust of Alessandro Peretti di Montalto is a portrait sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Executed in 1622 and 1623, the sculpture is currently housed in the Kunsthalle Hamburg, in Germany. Although possibly mentioned by one of Bernini's early biographers, the bust had been considered lost and therefore makes no appearance in Rudolf Wittkower's catalogue of Bernini’s sculptures of 1955. However, the bust was identified in the 1980s and is now considered an authentic work by Bernini.. 
The Menin Road. Author Name: Paul Nash. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Surrealism. . The Menin Road is a large oil painting by Paul Nash completed in 1919 that depicts a First World War battlefield. Nash was commissioned by the British War Memorials Committee to paint a battlefield scene for the proposed national Hall of Remembrance. The painting is considered one of the most iconic images of the First World War and is held by the Imperial War Museum.. The Menin Road is a large oil painting by Paul Nash completed in 1919 that depicts a First World War battlefield. Nash was commissioned by the British War Memorials Committee to paint a battlefield scene for the proposed national Hall of Remembrance. The painting is considered one of the most iconic images of the First World War and is held by the Imperial War Museum.. 
Coal Barges. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Boats du Rhône is a series of two sketches (a small one in a letter, the other very large and detailed with a reed pen) and three oil paintings, listed below, created by the Dutch artist Vincent van Gogh while living in Arles, France, during August, 1888.. Boats du Rhône is a series of two sketches (a small one in a letter, the other very large and detailed with a reed pen) and three oil paintings, listed below, created by the Dutch artist Vincent van Gogh while living in Arles, France, during August, 1888.. 
The Yellow Christ. Author Name: Paul Gauguin. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . The Yellow Christ (in French: Le Christ jaune) is a painting executed by Paul Gauguin in autumn 1889 in Pont-Aven. Together with The Green Christ, it is considered to be one of the key works of Symbolism in painting.A study for The Yellow Christ in pencil is preserved in the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum, and a version in watercolor is in the collection of the Art Institute of Chicago, gift of Elizabeth F. Chapman.. The Yellow Christ (in French: Le Christ jaune) is a painting executed by Paul Gauguin in autumn 1889 in Pont-Aven. Together with The Green Christ, it is considered to be one of the key works of Symbolism in painting. Gauguin first visited Pont-Aven in 1886. He returned to the village in early 1888 to stay until mid-October, when he left to join Vincent van Gogh in Arles, for little more than two months. Early in 1889, Gauguin was back to Pont-Aven to stay there until spring 1890. It was only for a short visit in summer 1889 to Paris to see the Exposition universelle and to arrange the Volpini Exhibition that Gauguin interrupted this sojourn. Soon after his return to Pont-Aven he painted The Yellow Christ: The Yellow Christ is a symbolic piece that shows the crucifixion of Christ taking place in nineteenth-century northern France as Breton women are gathered in prayer. Gauguin relies heavily on bold lines to define his figures and reserves shading only for the women. The autumn palette of yellow, red and green in the landscape echoes the dominant yellow in the figure of Christ. The bold outlines and flatness of the forms in this painting are typical of the cloisonnist style. A study for The Yellow Christ in pencil is preserved in the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum, and a version in watercolor is in the collection of the Art Institute of Chicago, gift of Elizabeth F. Chapman.. 
Truth Unveiled by Time. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Truth Unveiled by Time is a marble sculpture by Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Executed between 1646 and 1652, Bernini intended to show Truth allegorically as a naked young woman being unveiled by a figure of Time above her, but the figure of Time was never executed. Bernini still expressed a wish to add the figure as late as 1665.. Truth Unveiled by Time is a marble sculpture by Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Executed between 1646 and 1652, Bernini intended to show Truth allegorically as a naked young woman being unveiled by a figure of Time above her, but the figure of Time was never executed. Bernini still expressed a wish to add the figure as late as 1665. Bernini's rationale for creating the work was, according to his son Domenico, as a sculptural retort to attacks from opponents criticising his failed project to build two towers onto the front of St. Peter's Basilica. Cracks had appeared in the facade due to the inability of the foundations to support the towers and Bernini's architectural expansion received the blame, although historians are unsure as to the validity of this legend. Bernini began the preparatory work for Truth Unveiled by Time in 1645, during the critical period after the death of his main patron pope Urban VIII, and the figure of Truth was largely complete by 1652. Despite never completing the figure of Time, Bernini left the sculpture in his will in perpetuity to the first-born of the Bernini family; although in fact Bernini tried to sell the work to Cardinal Mazarin of France. It remained in the family (displayed on a tilted stucco block during the 19th century) until 1924, when it was purchased by the Italian government and transferred to its current home on a plinth in room VIII of the Galleria Borghese. Its plinth there was originally tilted but it is now on a flat plinth after a recent restoration, leaving Truth more upright as it was originally displayed.. 
Coronation of the Virgin. Author Name: Blessed John of Fiesole, O.P.. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Coronation of the Virgin is a painting of the Coronation of the Virgin by the Italian early Renaissance master Fra Angelico, executed around 1434-1435. It is now in the Musée du Louvre of Paris, France. The artist executed another Coronation of the Virgin (c. 1432), now in the Uffizi in Florence.. The Coronation of the Virgin is a painting of the Coronation of the Virgin by the Italian early Renaissance master Fra Angelico, executed around 1434-1435. It is now in the Musée du Louvre of Paris, France. The artist executed another Coronation of the Virgin (c. 1432), now in the Uffizi in Florence.. 
Noli me tangere. Author Name: Titian. . . Noli me tangere is a c. 1514 painting by Titian of the Noli me tangere episode in St John's Gospel. The painting is housed at the National Gallery in London.. Noli me tangere is a c. 1514 painting by Titian of the Noli me tangere episode in St John's Gospel. The painting is housed at the National Gallery in London.. 
Man in a Hammock. Author Name: Albert Gleizes. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_art. . L'Homme au hamac, also referred to as Man in a Hammock, is a painting created in 1913 by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes. The work was exhibited at Moderni Umeni, SVU Mánes, Vystava, Prague, February – March 1914, no. 41; and Der Sturm, Berlin, July – August 1914. The painting was reproduced in Guillaume Apollinaire, Paris-Journal, July 4, 1914 (published again in Chroniques d'Art, 1960. p. 405); and Albert Gleizes, L'Épopée, Le Rouge et le Noir, October 1929, p. 81. Stylistically Gleizes' painting exemplifies the principle of mobile perspective laid out in Du "Cubisme", written by himself and French painter Jean Metzinger. Evidence suggests that the man reclining in the hammock is indeed Jean Metzinger. Formerly in the collection of Metzinger, the first owner of the . L'Homme au hamac, also referred to as Man in a Hammock, is a painting created in 1913 by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes. The work was exhibited at Moderni Umeni, SVU Mánes, Vystava, Prague, February – March 1914, no. 41; and Der Sturm, Berlin, July – August 1914. The painting was reproduced in Guillaume Apollinaire, Paris-Journal, July 4, 1914 (published again in Chroniques d'Art, 1960. p. 405); and Albert Gleizes, L'Épopée, Le Rouge et le Noir, October 1929, p. 81. Stylistically Gleizes' painting exemplifies the principle of mobile perspective laid out in Du "Cubisme", written by himself and French painter Jean Metzinger. Evidence suggests that the man reclining in the hammock is indeed Jean Metzinger. Formerly in the collection of Metzinger, the first owner of the painting, Man in a Hammock forms part of the permanent collection of the Albright-Knox Art Gallery, Buffalo, New York.. 
Battle of the Centaurs. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Battle of the Centaurs is a relief by Italian Renaissance artist Michelangelo, created around 1492. It was the last work Michelangelo created while under the patronage of Lorenzo de' Medici, who died shortly after its completion. Inspired by a classical relief created by Bertoldo di Giovanni, the unfinished marble sculpture depicts the mythic battle between the Lapiths and the Centaurs. A popular subject of art in ancient Greece, the story was suggested to Michelangelo by the classical scholar and poet Poliziano.. Battle of the Centaurs is a relief by Italian Renaissance artist Michelangelo, created around 1492. It was the last work Michelangelo created while under the patronage of Lorenzo de' Medici, who died shortly after its completion. Inspired by a classical relief created by Bertoldo di Giovanni, the unfinished marble sculpture depicts the mythic battle between the Lapiths and the Centaurs. A popular subject of art in ancient Greece, the story was suggested to Michelangelo by the classical scholar and poet Poliziano. Battle of the Centaurs was a remarkable sculpture in several ways, presaging Michelangelo's future sculptural direction. Michelangelo had departed from the then current practices of working on a discrete plane to work multidimensionally. It was also the first sculpture Michelangelo created without the use of a bow drill and the first sculpture to reach such a state of completion with the marks of the subbia chisel left to stand as a final surface. Whether intentionally left unfinished or not, the work is significant in the tradition of "non finito" sculpting technique for that reason. Michelangelo regarded it as the best of his early works, and a visual reminder of why he should have focused his efforts on sculpture.. 
Woman With a Lute. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . Woman with a Lute, also known as Woman with a Lute Near a Window, is a painting created about 1662–1663 by Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer and now at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.The painting depicts a young woman wearing an ermine-trimmed jacket and enormous pearl earrings as she eagerly looks out a window, presumably expecting a male visitor. "A musical courtship is suggested by the viola da gamba on the floor in the foreground and by the flow of songbooks across the tabletop and onto the floor," according to a web page about the work at the Metropolitan Museum of Art website. The tuning of a lute was recognized by contemporary viewers as a symbol of the virtue of temperance. The oil on canvas work is 20¼ inches high and 18 inches wide (51.4 × 45.7 cm). The painting's canvas. Woman with a Lute, also known as Woman with a Lute Near a Window, is a painting created about 1662–1663 by Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer and now at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. The painting depicts a young woman wearing an ermine-trimmed jacket and enormous pearl earrings as she eagerly looks out a window, presumably expecting a male visitor. "A musical courtship is suggested by the viola da gamba on the floor in the foreground and by the flow of songbooks across the tabletop and onto the floor," according to a web page about the work at the Metropolitan Museum of Art website. The tuning of a lute was recognized by contemporary viewers as a symbol of the virtue of temperance. The oil on canvas work is 20¼ inches high and 18 inches wide (51.4 × 45.7 cm). The painting's canvas was almost certainly cut from the same bolt as that used for Lady Writing a Letter with her Maid. The work likely was painted shortly after than Young Woman with a Water Pitcher, and it shares with that painting its framing of the figure within rectangular motifs. But the painting has more muted tones, reflecting a shift in that direction by Vermeer in the mid- to late 1660s. At this time, Vermeer began using shadows and soft contours to further evoke an atmosphere of intimacy. "The impression of spatial recession and atmosphere is somewhat diminished by darkening with age of the objects in the foreground and by abrasion of the paint surface, mostly in the same area," according to the Metropolitan Museum of Art web page. The painting was given to the museum in 1900 by a bequest of railroad industrialist Collis P. Huntington.. 
Self Portrait. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Self Portrait (or The Large Self-Portrait) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch artist Rembrandt. Painted in 1652, it is one of at least 40 self-portraits painted by the artist, and was the first he had painted since 1645. In composition it is different from his previous self-portraits, depicting the painter in a direct frontal pose, hands on his hips, and with an air of self-confidence. It was painted the year that his financial difficulties began, and breaks with the sumptuous finery he had worn in previous self-portraits. Art historian Christopher White has called it "one of the most magisterial and sombre of these (late) pictures". It is in the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna.. Self Portrait (or The Large Self-Portrait) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch artist Rembrandt. Painted in 1652, it is one of at least 40 self-portraits painted by the artist, and was the first he had painted since 1645. In composition it is different from his previous self-portraits, depicting the painter in a direct frontal pose, hands on his hips, and with an air of self-confidence. It was painted the year that his financial difficulties began, and breaks with the sumptuous finery he had worn in previous self-portraits. Art historian Christopher White has called it "one of the most magisterial and sombre of these (late) pictures". It is in the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna. The freely painted clothing includes a brown robe that was most likely casual working attire, secured with a sash, over a black doublet with an upturned collar. A drawing from c. 1650 shows Rembrandt in much the same pose and attire, and features an inscription, though not by the artist's hand, stating that these were the artist's studio clothes. In the drawing Rembrandt is seen wearing a top hat, while in the painting he wears a black beret derivative of artists' portraits of the 16th century. Following a period of seven years when he painted no self-portraits, focusing instead on landscapes and intimate domestic subjects, the Vienna Self Portrait inaugurated a prolific stretch in which Rembrandt painted an average of one self-portrait a year until his death in 1669. Contrary to the popular understanding that these paintings primarily represented a deeper personal interest in self-depiction, Ernst van de Wetering has proposed that they were painted specifically for connoisseurs who collected self-portraits by prominent artists. As in other late portraits and self-portraits by Rembrandt, a painted underlayer shows through in areas of shadow, here particularly in the eye sockets and beneath the moustache. Microscopic analysis has revealed that this is not the painted ground layer, which is a similar gray color, but a separate underlayer of paint. This local imprimatura, used in preparation for specific areas of the painting, was also practiced by Vermeer, and its purpose is not fully understood. A strong similarity has been noted to the self-portrait of c. 1655, also in the Vienna Kunsthistorisches Museum. The later work shares the frontal angle, lighting, and informal attire of the larger painting, though the artist's face appears older. A painting of Rembrandt' son Titus van Rijn, by another artist in the style of Rembrandt, duplicates the pose and positioning of the figure in the Self Portrait.. 
Assumption of the Virgin. Author Name: Antonio da Correggio. . Author Movement: Mannerism. . The Assumption of the Virgin is a fresco by the Italian Late Renaissance artist Antonio da Correggio decorating the dome of the Cathedral of Parma, Italy. Correggio signed the contract for the painting on November 3, 1522. It was finished in 1530.Among many other works, Correggio's Assumption inspired Carlo Cignani for his fresco Assumption of the Virgin, in the cathedral church of Forlì; and Giovanni Lanfranco's fresco of the dome in the church of Sant'Andrea della Valle in Rome.. The Assumption of the Virgin is a fresco by the Italian Late Renaissance artist Antonio da Correggio decorating the dome of the Cathedral of Parma, Italy. Correggio signed the contract for the painting on November 3, 1522. It was finished in 1530. The composition was influenced by Melozzo da Forlì's perspective and includes the decoration of the dome base, which represents the four protector saints of Parma: St. John the Baptist with the lamb, St. Hilary with a yellow mantle, St. Thomas (or Joseph) with an angel carrying the martyrdom palm leaf, and St. Bernard, the sole figure looking upwards. Below the feet of Jesus, the uncorrupt Virgin in red and blue robes is lofted upward by a vortex of singing or otherwise musical angels. Ringing the base of the dome, between the windows, stand the perplexed Apostles, as if standing around the empty tomb in which they have just placed her. In the group of the blessed can be seen: Adam and Eve, Judith with the head of Holofernes. At the centre of the dome is a foreshortened beardless Jesus descending to meet his mother. Correggio's Assumption would eventually serve as a catalyst and inspiration for the dramatically-illusionistic, di sotto in su ceiling paintings of the 17th-century Baroque period. In Correggio's work, and in the work of his Baroque heirs, the entire architectural surface is treated as a single pictorial unit of vast proportions and opened up via painting, so that the dome of the church is equated with the vault of heaven. The illusionistic manner in which the figures seem to protrude into the spectators' space was, at the time, an audacious and astounding use of foreshortening, though the technique later became common among Baroque artists who specialized in illusionistic vault decoration. Among many other works, Correggio's Assumption inspired Carlo Cignani for his fresco Assumption of the Virgin, in the cathedral church of Forlì; and Giovanni Lanfranco's fresco of the dome in the church of Sant'Andrea della Valle in Rome.. 
Charles Frederic Swigert, Jr. Memorial Fountain. Author Name: Beyer, Richard. . . Charles Frederic Swigert, Jr. Memorial Fountain is an outdoor 1983 bronze and stone fountain and sculpture by Richard Beyer, installed at the Oregon Zoo in Portland, Oregon.. Charles Frederic Swigert, Jr. Memorial Fountain is an outdoor 1983 bronze and stone fountain and sculpture by Richard Beyer, installed at the Oregon Zoo in Portland, Oregon.. 
Portrait of a Young Fiancée. Author Name: Leonardo da Vinci. . . Portrait of a Young Fiancée, also called La Bella Principessa (English: "The Beautiful Princess"), is a portrait in coloured chalks and ink, on vellum, of a young lady in fashionable costume and hairstyle of a Milanese of the 1490s. Sold at auction in 1998 as an early 19th-century German work, some experts have since attributed it to Leonardo da Vinci. In 2010 one of those experts, Martin Kemp, made it the subject of his book La Bella Principessa: The Story of the New Masterpiece by Leonardo da Vinci. Evidence discovered in 2011 accounting for its provenance has strengthened the case for it being by Leonardo; the sheet appears to have been cut from a Milanese book of which the remainder has long been in Warsaw, which comes from the mileu of Francesco Sforza, Leonardo's employer.. Portrait of a Young Fiancée, also called La Bella Principessa (English: "The Beautiful Princess"), is a portrait in coloured chalks and ink, on vellum, of a young lady in fashionable costume and hairstyle of a Milanese of the 1490s. Sold at auction in 1998 as an early 19th-century German work, some experts have since attributed it to Leonardo da Vinci. In 2010 one of those experts, Martin Kemp, made it the subject of his book La Bella Principessa: The Story of the New Masterpiece by Leonardo da Vinci. Evidence discovered in 2011 accounting for its provenance has strengthened the case for it being by Leonardo; the sheet appears to have been cut from a Milanese book of which the remainder has long been in Warsaw, which comes from the mileu of Francesco Sforza, Leonardo's employer. The attribution to Leonardo da Vinci has been disputed. Most of those who disagree with the attribution to Leonardo believe the portrait is by an early 19th-century German artist imitating the style of the Italian Renaissance, although recent radiocarbon dating tests show a much earlier date for the vellum. The current owner purchased the portrait in 2007.. 
Monument to Lenin. Author Name: Ivan Shadr. . . The year 1927 was marked by many events that left an imprint on the history of Soviet and Russian Fine Arts.. The year 1927 was marked by many events that left an imprint on the history of Soviet and Russian Fine Arts.. 
The Death of Socrates. Author Name: Jacques-Louis David. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . The Death of Socrates (French: La Mort de Socrate) is a 1787 oil on canvas painting by the French painter Jacques-Louis David. Like many of his works from that decade, the painting focuses on a classical subject, in this case the story of the execution of Socrates, as told by Plato in his Phaedo. In this story, Socrates has been convicted of corrupting the youth of Athens and introducing strange gods, and has been sentenced to die by drinking poison hemlock. Socrates, rather than fleeing when the opportunity arises, uses his death as a final lesson for his pupils, and faces it calmly. The Phaedo, which depicts the death of Socrates, is also Plato's fourth and last dialogue to detail the philosopher's final days, which is also detailed in Euthyphro, Apology, and Crito.. The Death of Socrates (French: La Mort de Socrate) is a 1787 oil on canvas painting by the French painter Jacques-Louis David. Like many of his works from that decade, the painting focuses on a classical subject, in this case the story of the execution of Socrates, as told by Plato in his Phaedo. In this story, Socrates has been convicted of corrupting the youth of Athens and introducing strange gods, and has been sentenced to die by drinking poison hemlock. Socrates, rather than fleeing when the opportunity arises, uses his death as a final lesson for his pupils, and faces it calmly. The Phaedo, which depicts the death of Socrates, is also Plato's fourth and last dialogue to detail the philosopher's final days, which is also detailed in Euthyphro, Apology, and Crito. In the painting, an old man in a white robe sits upright on a bed, one hand extended over a cup, the other gesturing in the air. He is surrounded by other men of varying ages, most showing emotional distress, unlike the stoic old man. The young man handing him the cup looks the other way, with his face in his free hand. Another young man clutches the thigh of the old man. An elderly man sits at the end of the bed, slumped over and looking in his lap. To the left of the painting, the wall becomes an arch, with more men in the background.. 
The Marriage of the Virgin. Author Name: Pietro Perugino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Marriage of the Virgin is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Perugino, although it is now sometimes attributed to his pupil Lo Spagna. It is now in the Musée des Beaux-Arts of Caen, France. Initially commissioned to Pinturicchio for the recently completed cathedral of Perugia, Perugino took over the commission and finished the work around 1500-1504, probably after several periods of stasis.Raphael, Perugino's pupil, painted a version of his own of the picture in 1504.. The Marriage of the Virgin is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Perugino, although it is now sometimes attributed to his pupil Lo Spagna. It is now in the Musée des Beaux-Arts of Caen, France. Initially commissioned to Pinturicchio for the recently completed cathedral of Perugia, Perugino took over the commission and finished the work around 1500-1504, probably after several periods of stasis. Later, in 1797, the picture was looted by Napoleon and was subsequently taken to Caen, Normandy. Attempts by the commune of Perugia, and the personal commitment of Antonio Canova, to retrieve the work failed. The wide perspective of the picture, with at its centre an octagonal edifice and the aligned composition of the figures on the sides, is strongly related to the Perugino's Christ Giving the Keys to St. Peter at the Sistine Chapel. The painting prominently displays the Virgin's engagement ring, which was then kept at the cathedral as a holy relic. Raphael, Perugino's pupil, painted a version of his own of the picture in 1504.. 
The Apotheosis of Homer. Author Name: Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . The Apotheosis of Homer is a grand 1827 painting by Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres, now exhibited at the Louvre as INV 5417. The symmetrical composition depicts Homer being crowned by a winged figure personifying Victory or the Universe. Forty-four additional figures pay homage to the poet in a kind of classical confession of faith.. The Apotheosis of Homer is a grand 1827 painting by Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres, now exhibited at the Louvre as INV 5417. The symmetrical composition depicts Homer being crowned by a winged figure personifying Victory or the Universe. Forty-four additional figures pay homage to the poet in a kind of classical confession of faith.. 
The Captive King. Author Name: Joseph Wright. . . The Captive King is a sketch by Joseph Wright of Derby completed in 1772 or 1773. It depicts the French nobleman Guy de Lusignan held prisoner by Saladin. The sketch is thought to have been a preparation for the now-lost painting Guy de Lusignan in Prison.. The Captive King is a sketch by Joseph Wright of Derby completed in 1772 or 1773. It depicts the French nobleman Guy de Lusignan held prisoner by Saladin. The sketch is thought to have been a preparation for the now-lost painting Guy de Lusignan in Prison.. 
The Peacemakers. Author Name: George Peter Alexander Healy. . . The Peacemakers is an 1868 painting by George P.A. Healy. It depicts the historic March 28, 1865, strategy session by the Union high command on the steamer River Queen during the final days of the American Civil War.. The Peacemakers is an 1868 painting by George P.A. Healy. It depicts the historic March 28, 1865, strategy session by the Union high command on the steamer River Queen during the final days of the American Civil War.. 
Maman. Author Name: Louise Bourgeois. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Feminist_art. . Maman (1999) is a bronze, stainless steel, and marble sculpture by the artist Louise Bourgeois. The sculpture, which depicts a spider, is among the world's largest, measuring over 30 ft high and over 33 ft wide (927 x 891 x 1024 cm). It includes a sac containing 26 marble eggs and its abdomen and thorax are made of ribbed bronze. The title is the familiar French word for Mother. The sculpture was created in 1999 by Bourgeois as a part of her inaugural commission of The Unilever Series (2000), in the Turbine Hall at London's Tate Modern. This original was created in steel, with an edition of six subsequent castings in bronze.. Maman (1999) is a bronze, stainless steel, and marble sculpture by the artist Louise Bourgeois. The sculpture, which depicts a spider, is among the world's largest, measuring over 30 ft high and over 33 ft wide (927 x 891 x 1024 cm). It includes a sac containing 26 marble eggs and its abdomen and thorax are made of ribbed bronze. The title is the familiar French word for Mother. The sculpture was created in 1999 by Bourgeois as a part of her inaugural commission of The Unilever Series (2000), in the Turbine Hall at London's Tate Modern. This original was created in steel, with an edition of six subsequent castings in bronze.. 
Alien. Author Name: Breuer-Weil, David. . . Alien is a 2012 sculpture by the British artist David Breuer-Weil. It depicts a giant humanoid figure five times as large as a person, embedded head-first in grass. The sculpture was first installed in Grosvenor Gardens in the City of Westminster in April 2013, as part of the City of Sculpture initiative. In September 2015 it was moved to the National Trust property of Mottisfont in Hampshire.. Alien is a 2012 sculpture by the British artist David Breuer-Weil. It depicts a giant humanoid figure five times as large as a person, embedded head-first in grass. The sculpture was first installed in Grosvenor Gardens in the City of Westminster in April 2013, as part of the City of Sculpture initiative. In September 2015 it was moved to the National Trust property of Mottisfont in Hampshire. The work is executed in glass reinforced plastic with a bronze powder coat. It was scaled up from a much smaller maquette and incorporates hugely enlarged versions of the artist's fingerprints as well as his own graffiti. It was inspired in part by Breuer-Weil's grandfather Ernst, who fled to England after the Nazi takeover of Austria in 1938 but subsequently found himself labelled an "enemy alien". In acknowledgement of the link, the name "Ernst" is written in large letters on the surface of the sculpture. The sculpture also incorporates a portrait of the fictional Kaiser of Nerac, a character who rules an imaginary world conceived of by Breuer-Weil as a source of inspiration for his artworks. According to Breuer-Weil, Alien is intended to evoke "the shock of an alien landing in the heart of London and taking everybody by surprise"; he comments that "every new work of art should be like an alien landing, something sudden and unexpected." The sculpture is meant to be more about "our sense of belonging than any sci-fi theme", but Breuer-Weil suggests that "extra-terrestrials are completely human, maybe just different in scale, as is the case with my sculpture, which is five times the size of an ordinary person, but very human otherwise." He notes that to a certain degree, being Jewish is like "landing on an alien planet ... We belong in this culture, but our forebears crash-landed into it." The work was well received by the public and critics, being named as one of Time Out's "Top 10 Public Sculptures" in July 2013. Permission was initially granted for the piece to be on display at Grosvenor Gardens for a period of six months and a subsequent application was made to extend its appearance for a further 18 months. This was approved by Westminster City Council and the statue remained there until 13 April 2015. It was then moved to the grounds of Mottisfont in Hampshire, where it was unveiled on 7 September 2015.. 
Albert Gallatin. Author Name: James E. Fraser. . . Albert Gallatin is a bronze statue by James Earle Fraser. It is located north of the Treasury Building (Washington, D.C.), at 15th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C.It was authorized by Congress on January 11, 1927. It was dedicated on October 15, 1947.The inscription reads:(Base, front:) ALBERT GALLATINSECRETARY OF THE TREASURYGENIUS OF FINANCESENATOR AND REPRESENTATIVECOMMISSIONER FOR THE TREATY OF GHENTMINISTER TO FRANCE AND GREAT BRITAINAND STEADFASTCHAMPION OF DEMOCRACY1761-1849. Albert Gallatin is a bronze statue by James Earle Fraser. It is located north of the Treasury Building (Washington, D.C.), at 15th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C.It was authorized by Congress on January 11, 1927. It was dedicated on October 15, 1947. The inscription reads:(Base, front:) ALBERT GALLATINSECRETARY OF THE TREASURYGENIUS OF FINANCESENATOR AND REPRESENTATIVECOMMISSIONER FOR THE TREATY OF GHENTMINISTER TO FRANCE AND GREAT BRITAINAND STEADFASTCHAMPION OF DEMOCRACY 1761-1849. 
Monument au Fantôme. Author Name: Jean Dubuffet. . . Monument au Fantôme (English: Monument to the Phantom) is an outdoor sculpture by French sculptor Jean Dubuffet, installed on Avenida de las Americas at Discovery Green in Houston, Texas, United States. The painted fiberglass and steel frame sculpture features seven individual forms that represent features of Houston, including a chimney, church, dog, hedge, mast, phantom, and tree. Donated by the Dan Duncan family, it is part of Dubuffet's "Hourloupe" series, which has companion sculptures in Chicago, New York and Europe.. Monument au Fantôme (English: Monument to the Phantom) is an outdoor sculpture by French sculptor Jean Dubuffet, installed on Avenida de las Americas at Discovery Green in Houston, Texas, United States. The painted fiberglass and steel frame sculpture features seven individual forms that represent features of Houston, including a chimney, church, dog, hedge, mast, phantom, and tree. Donated by the Dan Duncan family, it is part of Dubuffet's "Hourloupe" series, which has companion sculptures in Chicago, New York and Europe.. 
Dressing for the Carnival. Author Name: Winslow Homer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Dressing for the Carnival is an 1877 painting by the American painter, printmaker and illustrator Winslow Homer.Homer painted African Americans, completely avoiding the stereotypes with which their collective image had been flooded during the period of Reconstruction after the Civil War. The 1870s and 1880s produced innumerable images of African Americans at carnival time, mindless, jolly, condescending.. Dressing for the Carnival is an 1877 painting by the American painter, printmaker and illustrator Winslow Homer. Homer painted African Americans, completely avoiding the stereotypes with which their collective image had been flooded during the period of Reconstruction after the Civil War. The 1870s and 1880s produced innumerable images of African Americans at carnival time, mindless, jolly, condescending. But Homer's Dressing for the Carnival is unlike all of them: a deeply nuanced and, in the end, tragic scene of preparation for festivity. A group of people is preparing for the African-American festival known in the South as Jonkonnu and in the North as Pinkster. It entailed the costuming of a Harlequin-like figure or Lord of Misrule, and this Homer depicts: a man caparisoned in bright, tatterdemalion clothes, yellow, red, and blue, with a liberty cap on his head. Two women are sewing them on him. The one on the right extends her arm, pulling the long thread right through, in a gesture of compelling and somber gravity; she is a classical Fate, seen below the Mason-Dixon line. Next to her, but apart from her, gazing at the vesting ceremony with wonder, are some children, one of whom holds a Stars and Stripes (for by Reconstruction, the rituals of the Fourth of July had been overlaid on those of Jonkonnu). Homer makes us sense how far the hopes of emancipation still are from the realities of black life in the South.. 
Oregon Pioneer. Author Name: Ellerhusen, Ulric. . . Oregon Pioneer, also known as Gold Man, is an eight-and-a-half ton bronze sculpture with gold leaf finish that sits atop the Oregon State Capitol in Salem, Oregon, United States. Created by Ulric Ellerhusen, the statue is a 22 ft (7 m)-tall hollow sculpture. The gilded piece was installed atop the building in 1938 when a new capitol was built.. Oregon Pioneer, also known as Gold Man, is an eight-and-a-half ton bronze sculpture with gold leaf finish that sits atop the Oregon State Capitol in Salem, Oregon, United States. Created by Ulric Ellerhusen, the statue is a 22 ft (7 m)-tall hollow sculpture. The gilded piece was installed atop the building in 1938 when a new capitol was built.. 
The Three Philosophers. Author Name: Giorgione. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Three Philosophers is an oil painting on canvas attributed to the Italian High Renaissance artist Giorgione. It shows three philosophers - one young, one middle-aged, and one old.The work was commissioned by the Venetian noble Taddeo Contarini, a Venetian merchant with an interest in the occult and alchemy. The Three Philosophers was finished one year before the painter died. One of Giorgione’s last paintings, it is now displayed at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna. The painting was finished by Sebastiano del Piombo.. The Three Philosophers is an oil painting on canvas attributed to the Italian High Renaissance artist Giorgione. It shows three philosophers - one young, one middle-aged, and one old.The work was commissioned by the Venetian noble Taddeo Contarini, a Venetian merchant with an interest in the occult and alchemy. The Three Philosophers was finished one year before the painter died. One of Giorgione’s last paintings, it is now displayed at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna. The painting was finished by Sebastiano del Piombo.. 
Mound of Butter. Author Name: Antoine Vollon. . . Mound of Butter is a painting by the 19th-century French realist painter Antoine Vollon made between 1875 and 1885. The painting is hosted at the National Gallery of Art. The New York times called the painting one of: Washington’s Crown Jewels.. Mound of Butter is a painting by the 19th-century French realist painter Antoine Vollon made between 1875 and 1885. The painting is hosted at the National Gallery of Art. The New York times called the painting one of: Washington’s Crown Jewels.. 
Jimson Weed. Author Name: Georgia O'Keeffe. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/American_modernism. . Jimson Weed is an oil on linen painting by American artist Georgia O'Keeffe from 1936, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, USA. It depicts four large blossoms of jimson weed, or datura.. Jimson Weed is an oil on linen painting by American artist Georgia O'Keeffe from 1936, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, USA. It depicts four large blossoms of jimson weed, or datura.. 
Breakfast time. Author Name: Hirsch-Pauli, Hanna. . . Breakfast time or Frukostdags is an oil painting completed in 1887 by the Swedish artist Hanna Pauli (1864–1940). It measures 91 by 87 centimetres (36 by 34 in) and currently belongs to the Nationalmuseum which bought it in 1910. The image shows a dining table standing in the garden. Breakfast time is one of the museum's most popular images, mentioned as one of the real pearls of the 1800s.. Breakfast time or Frukostdags is an oil painting completed in 1887 by the Swedish artist Hanna Pauli (1864–1940). It measures 91 by 87 centimetres (36 by 34 in) and currently belongs to the Nationalmuseum which bought it in 1910. The image shows a dining table standing in the garden. Breakfast time is one of the museum's most popular images, mentioned as one of the real pearls of the 1800s.. 
The Magpie. Author Name: Claude Monet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Magpie (French: La Pie) is an oil-on-canvas landscape painting by the French Impressionist Claude Monet, created during the winter of 1868–1869 near the commune of Étretat in Normandy. Monet's patron, Louis Joachim Gaudibert, helped arrange a house in Étretat for Monet's girlfriend Camille Doncieux and their newborn son, allowing Monet to paint in relative comfort, surrounded by his family.. The Magpie (French: La Pie) is an oil-on-canvas landscape painting by the French Impressionist Claude Monet, created during the winter of 1868–1869 near the commune of Étretat in Normandy. Monet's patron, Louis Joachim Gaudibert, helped arrange a house in Étretat for Monet's girlfriend Camille Doncieux and their newborn son, allowing Monet to paint in relative comfort, surrounded by his family. Between 1867 and 1893, Monet and fellow Impressionists Alfred Sisley and Camille Pissarro painted hundreds of landscapes illustrating the natural effect of snow (effet de neige). Similar winter paintings of lesser quantity were produced by Pierre-Auguste Renoir, Gustave Caillebotte, and Paul Gauguin. Art historians believe that a series of severe winters in France contributed to an increase in the number of winter landscapes produced by Impressionists. The Magpie is one of approximately 140 snowscapes produced by Monet. His first snowscape, A Cart on the Snowy Road at Honfleur, was painted sometime in either 1865 or 1867, followed by a notable series of snowscapes in the same year, beginning with the Road by Saint-Simeon Farm in Winter. The Magpie was completed in 1869 and is Monet's largest winter painting. It was followed by The Red Cape (1869–1871), the only known winter painting featuring Camille Doncieux. The canvas of The Magpie depicts a solitary black magpie perched on a gate formed in a wattle fence, as the light of the sun shines upon freshly fallen snow creating blue shadows. The painting features one of the first examples of Monet's use of colored shadows, which would later become associated with the Impressionist movement. Monet and the Impressionists used colored shadows to represent the actual, changing conditions of light and shadow as seen in nature, challenging the academic convention of painting shadows black. This subjective theory of color perception was introduced to the art world through the works of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe and Michel Eugène Chevreul earlier in the century. At the time, Monet's innovative use of light and color led to its rejection by the Paris Salon of 1869. Today, art historians classify The Magpie as one of Monet's best snowscape paintings. The painting was privately held until the Musée d'Orsay acquired it in 1984; it is considered one of the most popular paintings in their permanent collection.. 
The Arch 1979–1980. Author Name: Henry Moore. . Author Movement: Bronze Sculpture, Modernism. . The Arch 1979–1980 is a large stone sculpture by Henry Moore located in Kensington Gardens in Hyde Park, London. It was given to the park by Moore in 1980. The Arch was found to be unstable in 1996, and was subsequently dismantled and placed into storage. It was restored and replaced in its original location in 2012.. The Arch 1979–1980 is a large stone sculpture by Henry Moore located in Kensington Gardens in Hyde Park, London. It was given to the park by Moore in 1980. The Arch was found to be unstable in 1996, and was subsequently dismantled and placed into storage. It was restored and replaced in its original location in 2012.. 
Woman III. Author Name: Willem de Kooning. . . Woman III is a painting by abstract expressionist painter Willem de Kooning. Woman III is one of a series of six paintings by de Kooning done between 1951 and 1953 in which the central theme was a woman. It measures 68 by 48 1⁄2 inches (1.73 by 1.23 m) and was completed in 1953.In November 2006, the painting was sold by Geffen to billionaire Steven A. Cohen for $137.5 million, making it the fourth most expensive painting ever sold.. Woman III is a painting by abstract expressionist painter Willem de Kooning. Woman III is one of a series of six paintings by de Kooning done between 1951 and 1953 in which the central theme was a woman. It measures 68 by 48 1⁄2 inches (1.73 by 1.23 m) and was completed in 1953. From late 70s to 1994 this painting was part of Tehran Museum of Contemporary Art collection, but after the revolution in 1979, this painting could not be shown because of strict rules set by the government about the visual arts and what they depict. Finally, in 1994 it was quietly traded by Thomas Ammann Fine Art to David Geffen for the remainder of the 16th century Persian manuscript, the Tahmasbi Shahnameh. In November 2006, the painting was sold by Geffen to billionaire Steven A. Cohen for $137.5 million, making it the fourth most expensive painting ever sold.. 
La Mort de Marat. Author Name: Jacques-Louis David. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . The Death of Marat (French: La Mort de Marat or Marat Assassiné) is a painting by Jacques-Louis David of the murdered French revolutionary leader Jean-Paul Marat. It is one of the most famous images of the Revolution. David was the leading French painter, as well as a Montagnard and a member of the revolutionary Committee of General Security. The painting shows the radical journalist lying dead in his bath on 13 July 1793 after his murder by Charlotte Corday. Painted in the months after Marat's murder, it has been described by T. J. Clark as the first modernist painting, for "the way it took the stuff of politics as its material, and did not transmute it".. The Death of Marat (French: La Mort de Marat or Marat Assassiné) is a painting by Jacques-Louis David of the murdered French revolutionary leader Jean-Paul Marat. It is one of the most famous images of the Revolution. David was the leading French painter, as well as a Montagnard and a member of the revolutionary Committee of General Security. The painting shows the radical journalist lying dead in his bath on 13 July 1793 after his murder by Charlotte Corday. Painted in the months after Marat's murder, it has been described by T. J. Clark as the first modernist painting, for "the way it took the stuff of politics as its material, and did not transmute it".. 
Adoration of the Shepherds. Author Name: Giorgione. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Adoration of the Shepherds, sometimes still known as the Allendale Nativity, after a former owner, is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Giorgione, completed in about 1505 to 1510. The attribution is now usual, although not universal; the usual other view is that it is an early Titian. It is certainly a Venetian painting of that period. It is displayed in the National Gallery of Art of Washington, D.C., United States.. The Adoration of the Shepherds, sometimes still known as the Allendale Nativity, after a former owner, is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Giorgione, completed in about 1505 to 1510. The attribution is now usual, although not universal; the usual other view is that it is an early Titian. It is certainly a Venetian painting of that period. It is displayed in the National Gallery of Art of Washington, D.C., United States. A group of paintings is sometimes described as the "Allendale group", after the Allendale Nativity. This group includes another Washington painting, the Holy Family, and an Adoration of the Magi predella panel in the National Gallery, London. This group, now often expanded to include another Adoration of the Shepherds in Vienna, and sometimes further, are usually included (increasingly) or excluded together from Giorgione's oeuvre.. 
Fountain of the Great Lakes. Author Name: Lorado Taft. . . Fountain of the Great Lakes or Spirit of the Great Lakes Fountain is an allegorical sculpture by Lorado Taft in the Art Institute of Chicago South Stanley McCormick Memorial Court south of the Art Institute of Chicago Building in the Loop community area of Chicago in Cook County, Illinois, United States. It is a bronze work of art created between 1907-1913. The fountain depicts five women arranged so that the water flows through them in the same way water passes through the Great Lakes. Note that the Great Lakes waterflow starts in Lake Superior at 600 feet (180 m) above sea level and continues eastward through each lake until it reaches Lake Ontario and then passes into the St. Lawrence River. The Fountain is one of Taft's best known works.. Fountain of the Great Lakes or Spirit of the Great Lakes Fountain is an allegorical sculpture by Lorado Taft in the Art Institute of Chicago South Stanley McCormick Memorial Court south of the Art Institute of Chicago Building in the Loop community area of Chicago in Cook County, Illinois, United States. It is a bronze work of art created between 1907-1913. The fountain depicts five women arranged so that the water flows through them in the same way water passes through the Great Lakes. Note that the Great Lakes waterflow starts in Lake Superior at 600 feet (180 m) above sea level and continues eastward through each lake until it reaches Lake Ontario and then passes into the St. Lawrence River. The Fountain is one of Taft's best known works. The fountain was originally installed facing south where it remained until 1963 when it was moved next to the Morton Wing addition facing west where it sits today. In its original location it was visible from the Jackson and Michigan Avenue intersection once known as "route center" to the south. The fountain was commissioned by the Benjamin Ferguson fund and one surface references the title B. F. Ferguson Fountain of the Great Lakes. There is a relief sculpture of Benjamin Ferguson on the rear panel that has been hidden from view since the fountain was moved. As the first commission from the Ferguson Fund, it experienced various funding delays. Additionally, the legal environment for land use in Grant Park was in flux at the time the commission was made, which caused delays in location selection. Once erected, the fountain received largely positive reviews, but a few critics questioned symbolism of the sculpture. Others were caught up in sociopolitical subtexts of the day, with regard to obscenity laws as it related to public art and this semi-nude work.. 
Dora Maar au Chat. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Dora Maar au Chat (Dora Maar with Cat) is a 1941 painting by Pablo Picasso. It depicts Dora Maar, the painter's lover, seated on a chair with a small cat perched on her shoulders. This work is one of the world's most expensive paintings.. Dora Maar au Chat (Dora Maar with Cat) is a 1941 painting by Pablo Picasso. It depicts Dora Maar, the painter's lover, seated on a chair with a small cat perched on her shoulders. This work is one of the world's most expensive paintings.. 
The Art of Painting. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . The Art of Painting, also known as The Allegory of Painting, or Painter in his Studio, is a 17th-century oil on canvas painting by Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer. Many art historians believe that it is an allegory of painting, hence the alternative title of the painting. After Vermeer's Christ in the House of Martha and Mary it is the largest work by the master. Its composition and iconography also make it the most complex Vermeer work of all.The painting is owned by the Austrian Republic and is on display in the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna.. The Art of Painting, also known as The Allegory of Painting, or Painter in his Studio, is a 17th-century oil on canvas painting by Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer. Many art historians believe that it is an allegory of painting, hence the alternative title of the painting. After Vermeer's Christ in the House of Martha and Mary it is the largest work by the master. Its composition and iconography also make it the most complex Vermeer work of all. This illusionistic painting is one of Vermeer's most famous. Svetlana Alpers describes it as unique and ambitious. Walter Liedtke describes it "as a virtuoso display of the artist's power of invention and execution, staged in an imaginary version of his studio ..." According to Albert Blankert "No other painting so flawlessly integrates naturalistic technique, brightly illuminated space, and a complexly integrated composition." The painting is owned by the Austrian Republic and is on display in the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna.. 
Crucifixion with the Virgin, Saints and Angels. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Mond Crucifixion (or Crocifissione Gavari; both names are after former owners) is a painting by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael.An early work influenced by Perugino, it was originally an altarpiece in the church of San Domenico, Città di Castello, near Raphael's hometown of Urbino. The painting shows Jesus on the cross, who is looking peaceful even though he is dying. There are two angels catching his blood in chalices. On Jesus' left kneels Mary Magdalene, with John the Evangelist standing behind her. On his right Mary stands, and St. Jerome, to whom the altar was dedicated, is kneeling. At the foot of the cross is the inscription  ("Raphael of Urbino painted this") in silver letters.. The Mond Crucifixion (or Crocifissione Gavari; both names are after former owners) is a painting by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael. An early work influenced by Perugino, it was originally an altarpiece in the church of San Domenico, Città di Castello, near Raphael's hometown of Urbino. The painting shows Jesus on the cross, who is looking peaceful even though he is dying. There are two angels catching his blood in chalices. On Jesus' left kneels Mary Magdalene, with John the Evangelist standing behind her. On his right Mary stands, and St. Jerome, to whom the altar was dedicated, is kneeling. At the foot of the cross is the inscription ("Raphael of Urbino painted this") in silver letters. The painting was bequeathed to the National Gallery by Ludwig Mond. The sun and moon at the top are present despite the Council of Constantinople prohibition of such symbology for its reference to other religions.. 
Zephyrometer. Author Name: Price, Phil. . . The Zephyrometer is a civic sculpture by Evans Bay, Wellington. It was made by Christchurch artist Phil Price and installed in 2003. It is a kinetic sculpture consisting of a concrete cylinder holding a 26m tall needle which sways to show wind direction and speed (Wellington is known to Kiwis as "Windy Wellington"). The needle consists of fiberglass exterior around a wooden framework. After being damaged by lightning on August 14, 2014, it was restored on May 13, 2015.. The Zephyrometer is a civic sculpture by Evans Bay, Wellington. It was made by Christchurch artist Phil Price and installed in 2003. It is a kinetic sculpture consisting of a concrete cylinder holding a 26m tall needle which sways to show wind direction and speed (Wellington is known to Kiwis as "Windy Wellington"). The needle consists of fiberglass exterior around a wooden framework. After being damaged by lightning on August 14, 2014, it was restored on May 13, 2015. Zephyrometer was the second of five major wind sculptures commissioned by the Wellington Sculpture Trust over the period 2000 – 2010, which now make up the Meridian Wind Sculpture Walk. This is beside the main route from Wellington International Airport to the central city. Each sculpture shows a creative and different response to the wind by, in the order listed below, bending, pivoting, creating light, spinning and making sound – although some do more than one of these. The five sculptures are Pacific Grass by Konstantin Dimopoulos, Zephyrometer by Phil Price, Tower of Light by Andrew Drummond, Wellington Urban Forestry by Leon van den Eijkle, and Akau Tangi (roughly The Sighing Sound of the Wind) by Phil Dadson.. 
Coucher de soleil no. 1. Author Name: Jean Metzinger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Coucher de soleil no. 1 (also called Landscape, Paysage, Landschap, or Sunset No. 1) is an oil painting created circa 1906 by the French artist and theorist Jean Metzinger (1883–1956). Coucher de soleil no. 1 is a work executed in a mosaic-like Divisionist style with a Fauve palette. The reverberating image of the sun in Metzinger's painting is an homage to the decomposition of spectral light at the core of Neo-Impressionist color theory.The painting had been in the collection of Helene Kröller-Müller since 1921 (or prior), and is currently at the Kröller-Müller Museum, Otterlo, Netherlands.. Coucher de soleil no. 1 (also called Landscape, Paysage, Landschap, or Sunset No. 1) is an oil painting created circa 1906 by the French artist and theorist Jean Metzinger (1883–1956). Coucher de soleil no. 1 is a work executed in a mosaic-like Divisionist style with a Fauve palette. The reverberating image of the sun in Metzinger's painting is an homage to the decomposition of spectral light at the core of Neo-Impressionist color theory. Coucher de soleil was exhibited in Paris during the spring of 1907 at the Salon des Indépendants (n. 3457), along with Bacchante and four other works by Metzinger. The painting had been in the collection of Helene Kröller-Müller since 1921 (or prior), and is currently at the Kröller-Müller Museum, Otterlo, Netherlands.. 
A Young Woman Seated at the Virginals. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . A Young Woman Seated at the Virginals is a painting generally attributed to Johannes Vermeer, though this was for a long time widely questioned. A series of technical examinations from 1993 onwards confirmed the attribution. It is thought to date from c.1670 and is now in part of the Leiden Collection in New York. It should not be confused with Young Woman Seated at a Virginal in the National Gallery, London, another of Vermeer's depictions of women playing virginals.. A Young Woman Seated at the Virginals is a painting generally attributed to Johannes Vermeer, though this was for a long time widely questioned. A series of technical examinations from 1993 onwards confirmed the attribution. It is thought to date from c.1670 and is now in part of the Leiden Collection in New York. It should not be confused with Young Woman Seated at a Virginal in the National Gallery, London, another of Vermeer's depictions of women playing virginals.. 
The Chess Players. Author Name: Thomas Eakins. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Chess Players is a genre painting of 1876 by American artist Thomas Eakins (1844–1916).. The Chess Players is a genre painting of 1876 by American artist Thomas Eakins (1844–1916).. 
Peeckelhaeringh. Author Name: Frans Hals. . . Peeckelhaeringh, or Pekelharing, refers to an old Dutch word for pickled herring. Today it is best known as a jester by the same name who was the subject of a painting by Frans Hals.The star of 17th-century comic plays, Mr. Peeckelhaering was an actor who was later engraved by the local engraver Jonas Suyderhoef, who accompanied his engraving with a poem declaring that "Mr. Peeckelhaering's wet lips show how he enjoys a fresh mug of beer because his throat is always dry." This painting was documented by Cornelis Hofstede de Groot in 1910, who wrote:. Peeckelhaeringh, or Pekelharing, refers to an old Dutch word for pickled herring. Today it is best known as a jester by the same name who was the subject of a painting by Frans Hals. The star of 17th-century comic plays, Mr. Peeckelhaering was an actor who was later engraved by the local engraver Jonas Suyderhoef, who accompanied his engraving with a poem declaring that "Mr. Peeckelhaering's wet lips show how he enjoys a fresh mug of beer because his throat is always dry." This painting was documented by Cornelis Hofstede de Groot in 1910, who wrote: "95. THE MERRY TOPER. B. 97 ; M. 267. Half-length, life size. A laughing man with a brown face is turned half right. His head is slightly inclined to the left ; he looks at the spectator. He has a slight beard and moustache. His rough hair sticks out from beneath a flat red cap with yellow trimming. His costume is also red and yellow. In his left hand he holds a mug with open lid. In the same style as 96 and 98. This picture is represented in two pictures by Jan Steen, Nos. 137 and 446 (see Vol. I.). [Pendant to 123. Compare 99a.] Signed on the right above the mug " f. hals f." ; canvas, 29 1/2 inches by 24 inches. Engraved by J. Suyderhoef as "Monsieur Peeckelhaering." Under the name "Peeckelhaering" pictures are mentioned in the inventories of Henric Bugge, Leyden, 1666 ; Hendrick Huyck, Nymwegen, January 10, 1669 ; and Jan Zeeuw and Marie Bergervis, who died 1690, Amsterdam according to notes by A. Bredius. A copy on canvas, 29 1/2 inches by 26 inches, signed on the right with the monogram was in the sale : Vicomte de Buisseret, Brussels, April 29, 1891, No. 41. In the chief Kassel inventory of 1749, No. 363. In the Kassel Gallery, 1903 catalogue, No. 216.". 
Napoleon in the Wilderness. Author Name: Max Ernst. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dada. . Napoleon in the Wilderness is a 1941 surrealist painting by Max Ernst in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art.. Napoleon in the Wilderness is a 1941 surrealist painting by Max Ernst in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art.. 
Morning at Grand Manan. Author Name: Bricher, Alfred Thompson. . . Morning at Grand Manan is an oil painting by Alfred Thompson Bricher. It is part of the permanent collection at the Indianapolis Museum of Art, and is currently on view in the Paine Early American Painting Gallery.. Morning at Grand Manan is an oil painting by Alfred Thompson Bricher. It is part of the permanent collection at the Indianapolis Museum of Art, and is currently on view in the Paine Early American Painting Gallery.. 
Madonna with Child. Author Name: Giovanni Bellini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Madonna with Child, or Alzano Madonna, is an oil on panel painting by Italian Renaissance artist Giovanni Bellini, executed around 1485.. The Madonna with Child, or Alzano Madonna, is an oil on panel painting by Italian Renaissance artist Giovanni Bellini, executed around 1485.. 
Varoom!. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Varoom! is a 1963 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein that depicts an explosion and the onomatopoeic sound that gives it its name.. Varoom! is a 1963 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein that depicts an explosion and the onomatopoeic sound that gives it its name.. 
Tree. Author Name: McCarthy, Paul. . . "Tree" was a controversial 24-metre (79 ft) high inflatable sculpture by the artist Paul McCarthy that was briefly installed in the Place Vendôme in Paris in October 2014 as part of a FIAC exhibition called "Hors les murs". Although officially described as a Christmas tree, it was widely criticised for its similarity in appearance to a huge green butt plug. McCarthy admitted that it was deliberately shaped as such as a joke.. "Tree" was a controversial 24-metre (79 ft) high inflatable sculpture by the artist Paul McCarthy that was briefly installed in the Place Vendôme in Paris in October 2014 as part of a FIAC exhibition called "Hors les murs". Although officially described as a Christmas tree, it was widely criticised for its similarity in appearance to a huge green butt plug. McCarthy admitted that it was deliberately shaped as such as a joke. The controversy over the sculpture led to McCarthy being assaulted and the sculpture being vandalised only two days after its installation; a vandal climbed the fencing around it and cut the power supply which kept it inflated, in addition to cutting the cords holding it up. McCarthy stated that he did not want the work repaired or replaced. The attention given to the sculpture brought a boom in sales of real butt plugs in Paris: a sex shop owner reported that he usually sold 50 per month predominantly to gay men, but in November 2014 sold over 1,000 roughly divided equally between heterosexual men and women.. 
The Holy Family of Francis I. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Holy Family is a 1518 painting of the Holy Family, Saint Elisabeth, an infant John the Baptist and two angels. It is signed by Raphael, but most of the work was delegated to his workshop assistants. It was commissioned by Pope Leo X as a gift to Claude, wife of Francis I of France, hence its name. It is now in the Louvre.. The Holy Family is a 1518 painting of the Holy Family, Saint Elisabeth, an infant John the Baptist and two angels. It is signed by Raphael, but most of the work was delegated to his workshop assistants. It was commissioned by Pope Leo X as a gift to Claude, wife of Francis I of France, hence its name. It is now in the Louvre.. 
Martin Kukučín. Author Name: Ivan Meštrović. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Art_Nouveau. . Martin Kukučín is a sculpture of the Slovak writer of the same name by Ivan Meštrović. Copies exist in Bratislava, Slovakia and on the Oregon State University campus in Corvallis, Oregon, in the United States. The statue depicts Kukučín seated with his legs crossed, wearing a suit and boots. He holds an open book in his hands, on his lap.. Martin Kukučín is a sculpture of the Slovak writer of the same name by Ivan Meštrović. Copies exist in Bratislava, Slovakia and on the Oregon State University campus in Corvallis, Oregon, in the United States. The statue depicts Kukučín seated with his legs crossed, wearing a suit and boots. He holds an open book in his hands, on his lap.. 
Ecce Homo. Author Name: Elías García Martínez. . . The Ecce Homo (Behold the Man) in the Sanctuary of Mercy church in Borja, Spain, is a fresco painted circa 1930 by the Spanish painter Elías García Martínez depicting Jesus crowned with thorns. Both the subject and style are typical of traditional Catholic art. While press accounts agree that the original painting was artistically unremarkable, its fame derives from an attempt to restore the fresco by an untrained amateur in 2012.. The Ecce Homo (Behold the Man) in the Sanctuary of Mercy church in Borja, Spain, is a fresco painted circa 1930 by the Spanish painter Elías García Martínez depicting Jesus crowned with thorns. Both the subject and style are typical of traditional Catholic art. While press accounts agree that the original painting was artistically unremarkable, its fame derives from an attempt to restore the fresco by an untrained amateur in 2012.. 
Dona i Ocell. Author Name: Artigas, Joan Gardy. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . Dona i Ocell (English: Woman and Bird) is a 22-metre high sculpture by Joan Miró located in the Parc Joan Miró in Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain. The sculpture was covered in tiles by the artist's collaborator Joan Gardy Artigas. The sculpture is part of an artwork trilogy commissioned from Miró to welcome visitors to Barcelona.. Dona i Ocell (English: Woman and Bird) is a 22-metre high sculpture by Joan Miró located in the Parc Joan Miró in Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain. The sculpture was covered in tiles by the artist's collaborator Joan Gardy Artigas. The sculpture is part of an artwork trilogy commissioned from Miró to welcome visitors to Barcelona.. 
Campbell's Soup Cans. Author Name: Andy Warhol. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Campbell's Soup Cans, which is sometimes referred to as 32 Campbell's Soup Cans, is a work of art produced in 1962 by Andy Warhol. It consists of thirty-two canvases, each measuring 20 inches (51 cm) in height × 16 inches (41 cm) in width and each consisting of a painting of a Campbell's Soup can—one of each of the canned soup varieties the company offered at the time. The individual paintings were produced by a printmaking method—the semi-mechanized screen printing process, using a non-painterly style. Campbell's Soup Cans' reliance on themes from popular culture helped to usher in pop art as a major art movement in the United States.. Campbell's Soup Cans, which is sometimes referred to as 32 Campbell's Soup Cans, is a work of art produced in 1962 by Andy Warhol. It consists of thirty-two canvases, each measuring 20 inches (51 cm) in height × 16 inches (41 cm) in width and each consisting of a painting of a Campbell's Soup can—one of each of the canned soup varieties the company offered at the time. The individual paintings were produced by a printmaking method—the semi-mechanized screen printing process, using a non-painterly style. Campbell's Soup Cans' reliance on themes from popular culture helped to usher in pop art as a major art movement in the United States. Warhol, a commercial illustrator who became a successful author, publisher, painter, and film director, showed the work on July 9, 1962, in his first one-man gallery exhibition as a fine artist in the Ferus Gallery of Los Angeles, California. The exhibition marked the West Coast debut of pop art. The combination of the semi-mechanized process, the non-painterly style, and the commercial subject initially caused offense, as the work's blatantly mundane commercialism represented a direct affront to the technique and philosophy of abstract expressionism. In the United States the abstract expressionism art movement was dominant during the post-war period, and it held not only to "fine art" values and aesthetics but also to a mystical inclination. This controversy led to a great deal of debate about the merits and ethics of such work. Warhol's motives as an artist were questioned, and they continue to be topical to this day. The large public commotion helped transform Warhol from being an accomplished 1950s commercial illustrator to a notable fine artist, and it helped distinguish him from other rising pop artists. Although commercial demand for his paintings was not immediate, Warhol's association with the subject led to his name becoming synonymous with the Campbell's Soup Can paintings. Warhol subsequently produced a wide variety of art works depicting Campbell's Soup cans during three distinct phases of his career, and he produced other works using a variety of images from the world of commerce and mass media. Today, the Campbell's Soup cans theme is generally used in reference to the original set of paintings as well as the later Warhol drawings and paintings depicting Campbell's Soup cans. Because of the eventual popularity of the entire series of similarly themed works, Warhol's reputation grew to the point where he was not only the most-renowned American pop art artist, but also the highest-priced living American artist.. 
The Apocalypse Tapestry. Author Name: Bondol, Jean. . . The Apocalypse Tapestry is a large medieval French set of tapestries commissioned by Louis I, the Duke of Anjou, and produced between 1377 and 1382. It depicts the story of the Apocalypse from the Book of Revelation by Saint John the Divine in colourful images, spread over a number of sections that originally totalled 90 scenes. Despite being lost and mistreated in the late 18th century, the tapestry was recovered and restored in the 19th century and is now on display at the Chateau d'Angers. It is the oldest French medieval tapestry to have survived, and historian Jean Mesqui considers it "one of the great artistic interpretations of the revelation of Saint John, and one of the masterpieces of French cultural heritage".. The Apocalypse Tapestry is a large medieval French set of tapestries commissioned by Louis I, the Duke of Anjou, and produced between 1377 and 1382. It depicts the story of the Apocalypse from the Book of Revelation by Saint John the Divine in colourful images, spread over a number of sections that originally totalled 90 scenes. Despite being lost and mistreated in the late 18th century, the tapestry was recovered and restored in the 19th century and is now on display at the Chateau d'Angers. It is the oldest French medieval tapestry to have survived, and historian Jean Mesqui considers it "one of the great artistic interpretations of the revelation of Saint John, and one of the masterpieces of French cultural heritage".. 
Alma Mater. Author Name: Lorado Taft. . . The Alma Mater is a bronze statue by sculptor Lorado Taft, a beloved symbol of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. The statue was removed from its site at the entrance to the university for restoration in 2012 and was returned to its site in the spring of 2014. The 10,000-pound statue depicts a mother-figure wearing academic robes and flanked by two attendant figures representing "Learning" and "Labor", after the University's motto "Learning and Labor." Sited at the corner of Green Street and Wright Street at the heart of campus, and the edge of Campustown, the statue is iconic for the university and a popular backdrop for student graduation photos. It is appreciated for its romantic, heraldic overtones and warmth of pose.. The Alma Mater is a bronze statue by sculptor Lorado Taft, a beloved symbol of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. The statue was removed from its site at the entrance to the university for restoration in 2012 and was returned to its site in the spring of 2014. The 10,000-pound statue depicts a mother-figure wearing academic robes and flanked by two attendant figures representing "Learning" and "Labor", after the University's motto "Learning and Labor." Sited at the corner of Green Street and Wright Street at the heart of campus, and the edge of Campustown, the statue is iconic for the university and a popular backdrop for student graduation photos. It is appreciated for its romantic, heraldic overtones and warmth of pose.. 
Portrait of Pope Paul III. Author Name: Titian. . . Portrait of Pope Paul III (or Portrait of Pope Paul III Without Cap) is a 1543 portrait by Titian of Pope Paul III, produced during the pope's visit to Northern Italy.. Portrait of Pope Paul III (or Portrait of Pope Paul III Without Cap) is a 1543 portrait by Titian of Pope Paul III, produced during the pope's visit to Northern Italy.. 
Thorfinn Karlsefni. Author Name: Einar Jónsson. . . Thorfinn Karlsefni is a bronze statue by Icelandic sculptor Einar Jónsson.The first casting of it is located in Fairmount Park on Kelly Drive, at the North end of Boathouse Row, Philadelphia.The sculpture was commissioned by Joseph Bunford Samuel through a bequest that his wife, Ellen Phillips Samuel, made to the Association for Public Art (formerly the Fairmount Park Art Association), specifying that the funds were to be used to create a series of sculptures "emblematic of the history of America." Thorfinn Karlsefni (1915–1918) was installed along Philadelphia's Kelly Drive near the Samuel Memorial and unveiled on November 20, 1920. The artwork is one of 51 sculptures included in the Association for Public Art's Museum Without Walls: AUDIO™ interpretive audio program for Philadelphia's ou. Thorfinn Karlsefni is a bronze statue by Icelandic sculptor Einar Jónsson.The first casting of it is located in Fairmount Park on Kelly Drive, at the North end of Boathouse Row, Philadelphia.The sculpture was commissioned by Joseph Bunford Samuel through a bequest that his wife, Ellen Phillips Samuel, made to the Association for Public Art (formerly the Fairmount Park Art Association), specifying that the funds were to be used to create a series of sculptures "emblematic of the history of America." Thorfinn Karlsefni (1915–1918) was installed along Philadelphia's Kelly Drive near the Samuel Memorial and unveiled on November 20, 1920. The artwork is one of 51 sculptures included in the Association for Public Art's Museum Without Walls: AUDIO™ interpretive audio program for Philadelphia's outdoor sculpture.There is another casting of the statue in Reykjavík, Iceland. The inscription reads:(Sculpture, lower proper left:)Einar Jonssonsculptor1915-18 (On back of Karlsefni's shield: Icelandic verse) From the island of the North, of ice and snow, Of blossoming valleys and blue mountains, Of the midnight sun and the dreamy mists, The home of the goddess of northern lights.(Base, front:) Thorfinn KarlsefniIcelander1003-1006 (Base, front plaque:) Following Leif Ericson's Discovery ofNorth America in 1003, Thorfinn Karlsefniwith 165 men and 35 women established asettlement which lasted for 3 years andhis son Snorri was born in North AmericaLeif Ericson Society of PennsylvaniaScandinavian Craft Club of PhiladelphiaOctober 9, 1974. 
Death of the Reprobate. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . Death of the Reprobate (33.4 x 19.6 cm) is an oil on panel painting by Hieronymus Bosch which depicts the deathbed struggle for the human soul between an angel and a demon. The style is somewhat similar to his Death of the Miser. It is held in a private collection in New York, United States.The painting is likely a copy of detail from a larger hell panel. It dates from the second half of the 16th century.. Death of the Reprobate (33.4 x 19.6 cm) is an oil on panel painting by Hieronymus Bosch which depicts the deathbed struggle for the human soul between an angel and a demon. The style is somewhat similar to his Death of the Miser. It is held in a private collection in New York, United States. The painting is likely a copy of detail from a larger hell panel. It dates from the second half of the 16th century.. 
Annunciation of Fano. Author Name: Pietro Perugino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Annunciation of Fano is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Pietro Perugino, executed around 1488-1490, and housed in the church of Santa Maria Nuova, Fano, central Italy.The work was successful, and a few years later he was commissioned to paint an altarpiece for the same church, the so-called Fano Altarpiece.. Annunciation of Fano is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Pietro Perugino, executed around 1488-1490, and housed in the church of Santa Maria Nuova, Fano, central Italy. The work was successful, and a few years later he was commissioned to paint an altarpiece for the same church, the so-called Fano Altarpiece.. 
The Dance Lesson. Author Name: Edgar Degas. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Dance Lesson (sometimes known as The Dancing Lesson) is an oil on canvas painting by the French artist Edgar Degas created around 1879. It is currently kept at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. There is at least one other work by Degas by this title, also made in about 1879, which is a pastel.. The Dance Lesson (sometimes known as The Dancing Lesson) is an oil on canvas painting by the French artist Edgar Degas created around 1879. It is currently kept at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. There is at least one other work by Degas by this title, also made in about 1879, which is a pastel.. 
Landscape with Wheat Sheaves and Rising Moon. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . The Wheat Fields is a series of dozens of paintings by Vincent van Gogh, borne out of his religious studies and sermons, connection to nature, appreciation of manual laborers and desire to provide a means of offering comfort to others. The wheat field works demonstrate his progression as an artist from the drab Wheat Sheaves made in 1885 in the Netherlands to the colorful, dramatic paintings from Arles, Saint-Rémy and Auvers-sur-Oise of rural France.. The Wheat Fields is a series of dozens of paintings by Vincent van Gogh, borne out of his religious studies and sermons, connection to nature, appreciation of manual laborers and desire to provide a means of offering comfort to others. The wheat field works demonstrate his progression as an artist from the drab Wheat Sheaves made in 1885 in the Netherlands to the colorful, dramatic paintings from Arles, Saint-Rémy and Auvers-sur-Oise of rural France.. 
Hospital at Saint-Rémy-de -Provence. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Saint-Paul Asylum, Saint-Rémy is a collection of paintings that Vincent van Gogh did when he was a self-admitted patient at the Saint-Paul asylum in Saint-Rémy-de-Provence, since renamed the Clinique Van Gogh, from May 1889 until May 1890. During much of his stay there he was confined to the grounds of the asylum, and he made paintings of the garden, the enclosed wheat field that he could see outside his room and a few portraits of individuals at the asylum. During his stay at Saint-Paul asylum, Van Gogh experienced periods of illness when he could not paint. When he was able to resume, painting provided solace and meaning for him. Nature seemed especially meaningful to him, trees, the landscape, even caterpillars as representative of the opportunity for transformation and budding flowers . Saint-Paul Asylum, Saint-Rémy is a collection of paintings that Vincent van Gogh did when he was a self-admitted patient at the Saint-Paul asylum in Saint-Rémy-de-Provence, since renamed the Clinique Van Gogh, from May 1889 until May 1890. During much of his stay there he was confined to the grounds of the asylum, and he made paintings of the garden, the enclosed wheat field that he could see outside his room and a few portraits of individuals at the asylum. During his stay at Saint-Paul asylum, Van Gogh experienced periods of illness when he could not paint. When he was able to resume, painting provided solace and meaning for him. Nature seemed especially meaningful to him, trees, the landscape, even caterpillars as representative of the opportunity for transformation and budding flowers symbolizing the cycle of life. One of the more recognizable works of this period is The Irises. Works of the interior of the hospital convey the isolation and sadness that he felt. From the window of his cell he saw an enclosed wheat field, the subject of many paintings made from his room. He was able to make but a few portraits while at Saint-Paul. Within the grounds he also made paintings that were interpretations of some of his favorite paintings by artists that he admired. When he could leave the grounds of the asylum, he made other works, such as Olive Trees (Van Gogh series) and landscapes of the local area. Van Gogh's Starry Night over the Rhone and The Irises were exhibited at the Société des Artistes Indépendants on 3 September 1889, and in January 1890 six of his works were exhibited at the seventh exhibition of Les XX in Brussels. Sadly, just as Van Gogh's work was gaining interest in the artistic community, he was not well enough to fully enjoy it.. 
The Blessed Damozel. Author Name: Dante Gabriel Rossetti. . . "The Blessed Damozel" is perhaps the best known poem by Dante Gabriel Rossetti, which was first published in 1850 in the Pre-Raphaelite journal The Germ. Rossetti subsequently revised the poem twice and republished it in 1856, 1870 and 1873. Rossetti also used the same title for some of his best known paintings.The poem also was the inspiration of Claude Debussy's "La damoiselle élue" (1888), a cantata for two soloists, female choir, and orchestra.The first four stanzas of the poem are inscribed on the frame of the painting.. "The Blessed Damozel" is perhaps the best known poem by Dante Gabriel Rossetti, which was first published in 1850 in the Pre-Raphaelite journal The Germ. Rossetti subsequently revised the poem twice and republished it in 1856, 1870 and 1873. Rossetti also used the same title for some of his best known paintings. The poem was partially inspired by Poe's "The Raven", with its depiction of a lover grieving on Earth over the death of his loved one. Rossetti chose to represent the situation in reverse. The poem describes the damozel observing her lover from heaven, and her unfulfilled yearning for their reunion in heaven. The poem also was the inspiration of Claude Debussy's "La damoiselle élue" (1888), a cantata for two soloists, female choir, and orchestra. The first four stanzas of the poem are inscribed on the frame of the painting.. 
Boadicea and Her Daughters. Author Name: Thornycroft, Thomas. . . Boadicea and Her Daughters is a bronze sculptural group in London, located to the north side of the western end of Westminster Bridge, near Portcullis House and Westminster Pier, facing Big Ben and the Palace of Westminster across the road. It is considered the magnum opus of its sculptor, the English artist and engineer Thomas Thornycroft. Thornycroft worked on it from 1856 until shortly before his death in 1885, sometimes assisted by his son William Hamo Thornycroft, but it was not erected in its current position until 1902.It became a Grade II listed building in 1958.. Boadicea and Her Daughters is a bronze sculptural group in London, located to the north side of the western end of Westminster Bridge, near Portcullis House and Westminster Pier, facing Big Ben and the Palace of Westminster across the road. It is considered the magnum opus of its sculptor, the English artist and engineer Thomas Thornycroft. Thornycroft worked on it from 1856 until shortly before his death in 1885, sometimes assisted by his son William Hamo Thornycroft, but it was not erected in its current position until 1902. The statue portrays Boadicea, Queen of the Iceni tribe of Britons, accompanied by her two daughters, mounted on a scythed chariot drawn by two rearing horses. The chariot is based on Roman models, not native British or Iceni models, and has a scythe blade attached to each wheel. Boadicea stands upright, in a flowing gown, with a spear in her right hand and her left hand raised. Her daughters with bared breasts crouch in the chariot, one to either side of their mother. None of them is holding any reins to control the horses. The statue was commissioned in the 1850s, after Thornycroft made an equestrian statue of Queen Victoria which was exhibited at the Great Exhibition in 1851. The statue was praised by Queen Victoria and Prince Albert, and they were involved with Thornycroft's new project. Albert intended the monumental statue to be erected over the central arch of Decimus Burton's entrance to Hyde Park, and asked Thornycroft to make a "throne upon wheels". Parallels were drawn between the Victoria and Boadicea, whose name also means "victory". Albert lent two horses as models, and the statue of Boadicea bears some resemblance to a young Queen Victoria. Albert died in 1861 before the statue was completed. Thornycroft completed a full size model of the work before his death in 1885, but there was no funding for it to be cast in bronze. An earthwork known as "Boadicea's Grave" on the north side of Parliament Hill was excavated in 1894, although no grave was found, but Thornycroft's son, John Isaac Thornycroft suggested the site would be appropriate for the location of his father's long-delayed monumental statue, but £6,000 for the casting in bronze was still not available. A committee was formed to raise funds by subscription. The necessary monies were raised by 1898, and the statue was cast by the founder JW Singer & Sons in Frome for just £2,000, although there was still no site for it to be erected. Thorneycroft's statue was not installed until 1902, more than 17 years after Thornycroft's death. It was erected at Westminster Pier in June 1902, mounted on a large granite plinth by Thomas Graham Jackson. Inscriptions were added to the plinth in 1903; that on the front of the plinth reads . The right side of the plinth contains an inscription with text from William Cowper's poem Boadicea, an ode (1782): . An inscription on the plinth's left side reads, . The statue is located in a busy position, with traffic from the Embankment and many pedestrian tourists passing from the Westminster Abbey, Parliament Square and Whitehall to the west over the bridge past the South Bank Lion towards County Hall, the London Eye, and Jubilee Gardens on the South Bank. Its plinth is often obscured behind a souvenir stall. It became a Grade II listed building in 1958.. 
The Painter's Studio: A real allegory summing up seven years of my artistic and moral life. Author Name: Gustave Courbet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Painter's Studio (L'Atelier du peintre): A real allegory summing up seven years of my artistic and moral life is an 1855 oil on canvas painting by Gustave Courbet. It is located in the Musée d'Orsay in Paris, France.. The Painter's Studio (L'Atelier du peintre): A real allegory summing up seven years of my artistic and moral life is an 1855 oil on canvas painting by Gustave Courbet. It is located in the Musée d'Orsay in Paris, France. Courbet painted The Painter's Studio in Ornans, France in 1855. "The world comes to be painted at my studio," said Courbet of the Realist work. The figures in the painting are allegorical representations of various influences on Courbet's artistic life. On the left are human figures from all levels of society. In the center, Courbet works on a landscape, while turned away from a nude model who is a symbol of Academic art. On the right are friends and associates of Courbet, mainly elite Parisian society figures, including Charles Baudelaire, Champfleury, Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, and Courbet's most prominent patron, Alfred Bruyas. The 1855 Paris World Fair's jury accepted eleven of Courbet's works for the Exposition Universelle, but The Painter's Studio was not among them. In an act of self promotion and defiance, Courbet, with the help of Alfred Bruyas, opened his own exhibition (The Pavilion of Realism) close to the official exposition; this was a forerunner of the various Salon des Refusés. Very little praise was forthcoming, and Eugène Delacroix was one of the few painters who supported the work. Of the painting, Courbet stated that The Painter's Studio "represents society at its best, its worst, and its average.". 
Meadows near Rijswijk and the Schenkweg. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Meadows near Rijswijk and the Schenkweg is a watercolor by the Dutch painter Vincent van Gogh that he made in January 1882, shortly after taking up residence in The Hague.It shows the view from his studio window on the outer reaches of The Hague at the Schenkweg, then undergoing a period of urban development. The view is across the Schenkweg ditch towards the newly constructed Rijnspoor railway station, built for the Utrecht-Gouda-The Hague railway, and now the Den Haag Centraal railway station. Rijswijk was then a small rural community to the south, bordering Delft but stretching all the way to The Hague. The land on which the Rijnspoor was built was ceded to The Hague by Rijswijk. It is now a suburb of The Hague.. Meadows near Rijswijk and the Schenkweg is a watercolor by the Dutch painter Vincent van Gogh that he made in January 1882, shortly after taking up residence in The Hague. It shows the view from his studio window on the outer reaches of The Hague at the Schenkweg, then undergoing a period of urban development. The view is across the Schenkweg ditch towards the newly constructed Rijnspoor railway station, built for the Utrecht-Gouda-The Hague railway, and now the Den Haag Centraal railway station. Rijswijk was then a small rural community to the south, bordering Delft but stretching all the way to The Hague. The land on which the Rijnspoor was built was ceded to The Hague by Rijswijk. It is now a suburb of The Hague. The painting is amongst the very first paintings by van Gogh. Although he had been drawing for many years and occasionally applied watercolor washes, he did not take up painting proper until his study visit to his cousin-in-law and mentor Anton Mauve at The Hague in December 1881.. 
Saint Jerome in Penitence. Author Name: Titian. . . Saint Jerome in Penitence is a c.1575 painting of Saint Jerome by Titian, now in the Nuevos Museos in the El Escorial.. Saint Jerome in Penitence is a c.1575 painting of Saint Jerome by Titian, now in the Nuevos Museos in the El Escorial.. 
The autumn moon at Ishiyama. Author Name: Hiroshige. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Utagawa_school. . The Eight Views of Ōmi (in Japanese: 近江八景 or Ōmi hakkei) are the most scenic views of Ōmi Province, the present-day Shiga Prefecture, Japan. They were inspired by the Eight Views of Xiaoxiang in China. The sights were depicted by Hiroshige in several different series of ukiyo-e pictures, as well as other artists.They are sometimes erroneously called "Eight Views of Lake Biwa", but the latter were defined to include different locations in 1949 by the government of Shiga Prefecture.. The Eight Views of Ōmi (in Japanese: 近江八景 or Ōmi hakkei) are the most scenic views of Ōmi Province, the present-day Shiga Prefecture, Japan. They were inspired by the Eight Views of Xiaoxiang in China. The sights were depicted by Hiroshige in several different series of ukiyo-e pictures, as well as other artists. They are sometimes erroneously called "Eight Views of Lake Biwa", but the latter were defined to include different locations in 1949 by the government of Shiga Prefecture.. 
Portrait of Giacomo Doria. Author Name: Titian. . . Portrait of Giacomo Doria is a portrait of Giacomo Doria by Titian, painted in 1533-35 and now in the Ashmolean Museum.. Portrait of Giacomo Doria is a portrait of Giacomo Doria by Titian, painted in 1533-35 and now in the Ashmolean Museum.. 
''Bentivoglio Altarpiece. Author Name: Lorenzo Costa. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Bentivoglio Altarpiece is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Lorenzo Costa the Elder, dating to August 1488. It is displayed in the Bentivoglio Chapel of the church of San Giacomo Maggiore, Bologna, Italy.It was commissioned by Giovanni II Bentivoglio, lord of Bologna, as a thanksgiving for the family’s escape from an attempted massacre by the Malvezzi family .. The Bentivoglio Altarpiece is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Lorenzo Costa the Elder, dating to August 1488. It is displayed in the Bentivoglio Chapel of the church of San Giacomo Maggiore, Bologna, Italy. It was commissioned by Giovanni II Bentivoglio, lord of Bologna, as a thanksgiving for the family’s escape from an attempted massacre by the Malvezzi family .. 
Chula series:. Author Name: Juan Luna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Chula series or Chula studies is a succession of paintings created by Filipino painter and hero Juan Luna about the so-called "chulas" or working class women of Madrid, Spain. Luna is well known for illustrating “striking and commercially lucrative” depictions of "women of the streets" of Madrid. Exemplars of these are Luna’s Una Chula I ("A Chula" No. 1) and Una Chula II ("A Chula" No. 2) paintings.. The Chula series or Chula studies is a succession of paintings created by Filipino painter and hero Juan Luna about the so-called "chulas" or working class women of Madrid, Spain. Luna is well known for illustrating “striking and commercially lucrative” depictions of "women of the streets" of Madrid. Exemplars of these are Luna’s Una Chula I ("A Chula" No. 1) and Una Chula II ("A Chula" No. 2) paintings.. 
Triumph of Labour. Author Name: D. P. Roy Choudhury. . . The Triumph of Labour, also known as the Labour statue, is a statue at the Marina Beach, Chennai, India. Erected at the northern end of the beach at the Anna Square opposite University of Madras, it is an important landmark of Chennai. The statue shows four men toiling to move a rock, depicting the hard work of the labouring class. It bears a semblance to the famed World War II photograph of the raising of the flag on Iwo Jima by the American Marines. It was sculpted by Debi Prasad Roy Chowdhury. The statue is the earliest one to be erected on the beach and is installed close to the site where the country's first commemoration of May Day was held. The statue was installed on the eve of the Republic Day in 1959, as part of the Kamaraj government's drive to beautify the beach. The statue rem. The Triumph of Labour, also known as the Labour statue, is a statue at the Marina Beach, Chennai, India. Erected at the northern end of the beach at the Anna Square opposite University of Madras, it is an important landmark of Chennai. The statue shows four men toiling to move a rock, depicting the hard work of the labouring class. It bears a semblance to the famed World War II photograph of the raising of the flag on Iwo Jima by the American Marines. It was sculpted by Debi Prasad Roy Chowdhury. The statue is the earliest one to be erected on the beach and is installed close to the site where the country's first commemoration of May Day was held. The statue was installed on the eve of the Republic Day in 1959, as part of the Kamaraj government's drive to beautify the beach. The statue remains the focal point of May Day celebrations in the city.. 
General Thaddeus Kosciuszko. Author Name: Gaetano Trentanove. . . General Thaddeus Kosciuszko is a public art work by Italian and American artist Gaetano Trentanove located on the south side of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, in the United States. The bronze equestrian sculpture depicts Kosciuszko in his military uniform and hat. It is located at South 9th Place and West Lincoln Avenue in Kosciuszko Park. The statue was placed in October 1904 but was not officially unveiled until June 18, 1905 with a speech by Archbishop F. Symon from Rome. The statue was moved to its present location in 1951 and a celebratory unveiling was held on September 15 of that year.. General Thaddeus Kosciuszko is a public art work by Italian and American artist Gaetano Trentanove located on the south side of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, in the United States. The bronze equestrian sculpture depicts Kosciuszko in his military uniform and hat. It is located at South 9th Place and West Lincoln Avenue in Kosciuszko Park. The statue was placed in October 1904 but was not officially unveiled until June 18, 1905 with a speech by Archbishop F. Symon from Rome. The statue was moved to its present location in 1951 and a celebratory unveiling was held on September 15 of that year.. 
The Parisian Life. Author Name: Juan Luna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Parisian Life, also known as Interior d'un Cafi (also spelled Interior d’Un Café, literally meaning "Inside a Café"), is an 1892 oil on canvas impressionist painting by Filipino painter and revolutionary activist Juan Luna. The painting presently owned by the Government Service Insurance System is currently exhibited at the National Museum of the Philippines after the state pension fund transferred management of its collection to the National Museum in March 2012.. The Parisian Life, also known as Interior d'un Cafi (also spelled Interior d’Un Café, literally meaning "Inside a Café"), is an 1892 oil on canvas impressionist painting by Filipino painter and revolutionary activist Juan Luna. The painting presently owned by the Government Service Insurance System is currently exhibited at the National Museum of the Philippines after the state pension fund transferred management of its collection to the National Museum in March 2012. Measuring 57 cm x 79 cm (22 in x 31 in), The Parisian Life is one of the masterpieces that Luna created when he stayed in Paris, France from October 1884 to February 1893. His own personal “Parisian life” was a total of eight years. This period in Luna’s career in painting is known as the post-academic or the Parisian period, a time when his style moved away from having “dark colors of the academic palette” and became “increasingly lighter in color and mood”. As an artist, Luna became renowned on the European continent and became “a familiar of the French and Spanish royal courts”. During the period, apart from his heightening artistry Luna was also participating in the Philippine propaganda movement together with José Rizal, the national hero of the Philippines. Months after painting The Parisian Life, Luna would be departing from Paris to Madrid, Spain then to the Manila, Philippines in 1894 in order to rejoin Rizal and Dr. Ariston Bautista Lin, and perform his role in the Philippine Revolution and war of independence in 1896. During this time, Luna also had to deal with the death of an infant daughter and the alleged extra-marital affair of his wife Paz Pardo de Tavera with a French physician. Because of jealousy, Luna killed his wife and his mother-in-law. Luna also attempted to kill his brother-in-law. A French court charged Luna for committing a "crime of passion" but was acquitted of parricide and murder on February 7, 1893. The Parisian Life is regarded as the last major work Luna did during his post-academic and life in Paris because from 1894 Luna travelled frequently that he was only able to paint a few number of landscapes in the Philippines. When Luna returned to France in 1898, he was an appointed member of the delegation in Paris representing the Philippine revolutionary government tasked to work for the diplomatic recognition of the Philippines as an independent Republic. In 1899, Luna died in Hong Kong while on the way back to the Philippines.. 
Mercury and Argus. Author Name: Jacob Jordaens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Flemish_Baroque_painting. . Mercury and Argus is a painting by Jacob Jordaens, painted around 1620. It is on display at the Museum of Fine Arts of Lyon (oil on canvas 202 x 241 cm).. Mercury and Argus is a painting by Jacob Jordaens, painted around 1620. It is on display at the Museum of Fine Arts of Lyon (oil on canvas 202 x 241 cm).. 
Portrait of Vincent Nubiola. Author Name: Joan Miró. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . Portrait of Vincent Nubiola is an oil painting by Spanish artist Joan Miró. Painted in 1917 when Miró was 24 years old, a year before his first exhibition, the portrait is now considered a masterpiece from a period when he experimented with both Cubism and Fauvism. It is also said by some art critics to show the influence of Van Gogh. Acquired for a time by Picasso, the painting is now in the permanent collection of the Folkwang Museum in Essen (Germany).. Portrait of Vincent Nubiola is an oil painting by Spanish artist Joan Miró. Painted in 1917 when Miró was 24 years old, a year before his first exhibition, the portrait is now considered a masterpiece from a period when he experimented with both Cubism and Fauvism. It is also said by some art critics to show the influence of Van Gogh. Acquired for a time by Picasso, the painting is now in the permanent collection of the Folkwang Museum in Essen (Germany).. 
Madonna della seggiola. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Madonna della seggiola or Madonna della sedia is a Madonna painting by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael, dating to c. 1513-1514 and housed in the Palazzo Pitti collection in Florence. It depicts Mary embracing the child Christ, while the young John the Baptist devoutly watches.Painted during his Roman period, this Madonna does not have the strict geometrical form and linear style of his earlier Florentine treatments of the same subject. Instead, the warmer colors seem to suggest the influence of Titian and Raphael's rival Sebastiano del Piombo.. The Madonna della seggiola or Madonna della sedia is a Madonna painting by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael, dating to c. 1513-1514 and housed in the Palazzo Pitti collection in Florence. It depicts Mary embracing the child Christ, while the young John the Baptist devoutly watches. Painted during his Roman period, this Madonna does not have the strict geometrical form and linear style of his earlier Florentine treatments of the same subject. Instead, the warmer colors seem to suggest the influence of Titian and Raphael's rival Sebastiano del Piombo. Maria Montessori, Italian doctor and pioneer in pedagogy, wrote that it was her wish that the Madonna della seggiola hang in each Children's House (Montessori school) as a symbol of "humanity [St. John] rendering homage to maternity [Madonna]". Ingres greatly admired Raphael and paid tribute to him by including this painting in many of his works, such in the background of as Henri IV playing with his children and Raphael and La Fornarina, on the table in front of the subject in his Portrait of monsieur Rivière, and worked into the carpet in Napoleon I on his Imperial Throne. Johann Zoffany also included this painting along with many others in his 1770s painting of the Tribuna of the Uffizi.. 
Madonna with Child. Author Name: Giovanni Bellini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Madonna of the Red Cherubims is an oil on panel painting by Italian Renaissance artist Giovanni Bellini, executed around 1485.Stylistic elements such as the child on one of the Virgin's knees, and the mutual glance, suggest that the work was based on Bellini's Alzano Madonna in the same museum.. The Madonna of the Red Cherubims is an oil on panel painting by Italian Renaissance artist Giovanni Bellini, executed around 1485. Stylistic elements such as the child on one of the Virgin's knees, and the mutual glance, suggest that the work was based on Bellini's Alzano Madonna in the same museum.. 
Girl in a Blue Dress. Author Name: Johannes Verspronck. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Girl in a Blue Dress, also called Portrait of a Girl Dressed in Blue (Dutch: Portret van een meisje in het blauw) or simply Portrait of a Girl (Dutch: Portret van een meisje), is an oil painting by Johannes Cornelisz Verspronck in the collection of the Rijksmuseum. It was acquired by the museum in 1928 as a gift from the Vereniging Rembrandt.. Girl in a Blue Dress, also called Portrait of a Girl Dressed in Blue (Dutch: Portret van een meisje in het blauw) or simply Portrait of a Girl (Dutch: Portret van een meisje), is an oil painting by Johannes Cornelisz Verspronck in the collection of the Rijksmuseum. It was acquired by the museum in 1928 as a gift from the Vereniging Rembrandt.. 
Broken Walrus II. Author Name: Freeman, Gary. . . Broken Walrus II, is a public sculpture by American artist Gary Freeman, created in 1976 and located at the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is near Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. It is made of mild steel and is approximately 84 x 84 x 276 inches. The sculpture has been described by Freeman as looking like a grasshopper.. Broken Walrus II, is a public sculpture by American artist Gary Freeman, created in 1976 and located at the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is near Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. It is made of mild steel and is approximately 84 x 84 x 276 inches. The sculpture has been described by Freeman as looking like a grasshopper.. 
Maria Skłodowska-Curie Medallion. Author Name: Jozef C. Mazur. . . The Maria Skłodowska-Curie Medallion is one panel from a set of four created by Jozef C. Mazur. It currently resides in the Polish Room at the University at Buffalo Libraries.. The Maria Skłodowska-Curie Medallion is one panel from a set of four created by Jozef C. Mazur. It currently resides in the Polish Room at the University at Buffalo Libraries.. 
La Rivière. Author Name: Aristide Maillol. . . La Rivière (The River) is a lead or bronze sculpture by Aristide Maillol.. La Rivière (The River) is a lead or bronze sculpture by Aristide Maillol.. 
A Lady Writing a Letter. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . A Lady Writing a Letter (also known as A Lady Writing; Dutch: Schrijvend meisje) is an oil painting attributed to 17th century Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer. It is believed to have been completed around 1665. The Lady is seen to be writing a letter and has been interrupted, so gently turns her head to see what is happening. She wears twelve pearls (10 on the necklace and two earrings).In Blue Balliett's children's book, Chasing Vermeer, A Lady Writing is stolen on its way from the National Gallery of Art to Chicago, causing the main conflict of the story.. A Lady Writing a Letter (also known as A Lady Writing; Dutch: Schrijvend meisje) is an oil painting attributed to 17th century Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer. It is believed to have been completed around 1665. The Lady is seen to be writing a letter and has been interrupted, so gently turns her head to see what is happening. She wears twelve pearls (10 on the necklace and two earrings). Many of the objects seen in the painting, such as the woman's coat, the cloth on the table, and the string of pearls, also appear in other Vermeer works. This has led to speculation that he or his family members owned the objects, and even that the subjects of the paintings are his relatives. It has often been suggested that in his paintings, Vermeer sought to grant to his models that which he could not endow to his wife and family: calm and affluence. A Lady Writing a Letter was donated to the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. in 1962 by Harry Waldron Havemeyer and Horace Havemeyer. In its first loan to the Norton Simon Museum, the National Gallery of Art agreed to lend the painting for exhibition at the Pasadena, California museum from November 7, 2008 through February 9, 2009. In Blue Balliett's children's book, Chasing Vermeer, A Lady Writing is stolen on its way from the National Gallery of Art to Chicago, causing the main conflict of the story.. 
Corpse of Christ. Author Name: Annibale Carracci. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Corpse of Christ is a painting by the Italian Baroque master Annibale Carracci, dating to c. 1583-1585 and housed in the Staatsgalerie of Stuttgart, Germany.The work, dating to Carracci's early career, is a manifest homage to Andrea Mantegna's Dead Christ, which he had perhaps seen in the Aldobrandini collection. Christ is portrayed lying in a contorted position, seen from his feet. Differently from Mantegna, Carracci did not paint the mourners at the side, and adopted a more realistic depiction of the body.The artist put the instruments of the Passion.. The Corpse of Christ is a painting by the Italian Baroque master Annibale Carracci, dating to c. 1583-1585 and housed in the Staatsgalerie of Stuttgart, Germany. The work, dating to Carracci's early career, is a manifest homage to Andrea Mantegna's Dead Christ, which he had perhaps seen in the Aldobrandini collection. Christ is portrayed lying in a contorted position, seen from his feet. Differently from Mantegna, Carracci did not paint the mourners at the side, and adopted a more realistic depiction of the body. The artist put the instruments of the Passion.. 
Symphony in White, No. 1: The White Girl. Author Name: James Abbott McNeill Whistler. . Author Movement: Founder of Tonalism. . The Salon des Refusés, French for "exhibition of rejects" ([salɔ̃ de ʁəfyze]), is generally an exhibition of works rejected by the jury of the official Paris Salon, but the term is most famously used to refer to the Salon des Refusés of 1863.Today by extension, salon des refusés refers to any exhibition of works rejected from a juried art show.. The Salon des Refusés, French for "exhibition of rejects" ([salɔ̃ de ʁəfyze]), is generally an exhibition of works rejected by the jury of the official Paris Salon, but the term is most famously used to refer to the Salon des Refusés of 1863. Today by extension, salon des refusés refers to any exhibition of works rejected from a juried art show.. 
The Holy Family with Angels. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Holy Family with Angels (1645) is an oil painting on canvas by the Dutch landscape painter Rembrandt. It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Hermitage Museum.. The Holy Family with Angels (1645) is an oil painting on canvas by the Dutch landscape painter Rembrandt. It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Hermitage Museum.. 
J. F. Kennedy Memorial. Author Name: Kenneth George Budd. . . The J. F. Kennedy Memorial in Birmingham, England, is a memorial mosaic mural to John F. Kennedy, by Kenneth Budd.The mosaic, commissioned by Birmingham's Irish community, and funded by public subscription, was constructed in panels, at Budd's company in south London, Kenneth Budd and Associates.. The J. F. Kennedy Memorial in Birmingham, England, is a memorial mosaic mural to John F. Kennedy, by Kenneth Budd. The mosaic, commissioned by Birmingham's Irish community, and funded by public subscription, was constructed in panels, at Budd's company in south London, Kenneth Budd and Associates.. 
Le prisonnier politique. Author Name: Lucien Wercollier. . . Le prisonnier politique (French; The Political Prisoner) is a bronze sculpture created in 1949 by Luxembourgish sculptor Lucien Wercollier. It exists in three different versions.. Le prisonnier politique (French; The Political Prisoner) is a bronze sculpture created in 1949 by Luxembourgish sculptor Lucien Wercollier. It exists in three different versions.. 
Madonna Litta. Author Name: Leonardo da Vinci. . . The Madonna Litta is a late 15th-century painting, traditionally attributed to Leonardo da Vinci, in the Hermitage Museum, Saint Petersburg. It depicts the Virgin Mary breastfeeding the Christ child, a devotional subject known as the Madonna lactans. The figures are set in a dark interior with two arched openings, as in Leonardo's earlier Madonna of the Carnation, and a mountainous landscape in aerial perspective can be seen beyond. In his left hand Christ holds a goldfinch, which is symbolic of his future Passion.. The Madonna Litta is a late 15th-century painting, traditionally attributed to Leonardo da Vinci, in the Hermitage Museum, Saint Petersburg. It depicts the Virgin Mary breastfeeding the Christ child, a devotional subject known as the Madonna lactans. The figures are set in a dark interior with two arched openings, as in Leonardo's earlier Madonna of the Carnation, and a mountainous landscape in aerial perspective can be seen beyond. In his left hand Christ holds a goldfinch, which is symbolic of his future Passion. Scholarly opinion is divided on the work's attribution, with some believing it to be the work of a pupil of Leonardo such as Giovanni Antonio Boltraffio or Marco d'Oggiono; the Hermitage Museum, however, considers the painting to be an autograph work by Leonardo. The painting takes its name from the House of Litta, a Milanese noble family in whose collection it was for much of the nineteenth century.. 
View of Mount Fuji from Satta Point in the Suruga Bay. Author Name: Hiroshige. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Utagawa_school. . Thirty-six Views of Mount Fuji (Japanese: 富士三十六景; Fuji Sanjū-Rokkei) is the title of two series of woodblock prints by the Japanese ukiyo-e artist Andō Hiroshige, depicting Mount Fuji in differing seasons and weather conditions from a variety of different places and distances. The 1852 series are in landscape orientation; the 1858 series are in portrait orientation. The same subject had previously been dealt with by Hokusai in two of his own series, Thirty-six Views of Mount Fuji and One Hundred Views of Mount Fuji.. Thirty-six Views of Mount Fuji (Japanese: 富士三十六景; Fuji Sanjū-Rokkei) is the title of two series of woodblock prints by the Japanese ukiyo-e artist Andō Hiroshige, depicting Mount Fuji in differing seasons and weather conditions from a variety of different places and distances. The 1852 series are in landscape orientation; the 1858 series are in portrait orientation. The same subject had previously been dealt with by Hokusai in two of his own series, Thirty-six Views of Mount Fuji and One Hundred Views of Mount Fuji.. 
Last Supper. Author Name: Pietro Perugino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Last Supper (1493–1496) is a fresco by the Italian Renaissance painter Pietro Perugino, located in the refectory, now museum, of the former Convent of Fuligno located on Via Faenza #42 in Florence, region of Tuscany, Italy.. The Last Supper (1493–1496) is a fresco by the Italian Renaissance painter Pietro Perugino, located in the refectory, now museum, of the former Convent of Fuligno located on Via Faenza #42 in Florence, region of Tuscany, Italy. The fresco depicts Jesus and the Apostles during the Last Supper, with Judas sitting separately on the near side of the table, as is common in depictions of the Last Supper in Christian art. It is considered one of Perugino's best works. As in some other cases, Perugino reused the details of the delicate figures here in other works, drawing later complaints from Giorgio Vasari. The convent of Fuligno originally had housed Clarissan nuns since 1419. Later it became a convent for noble Florentine girls, and received the patronage of Lorenzo de' Medici and the Lapaccini family. Pietro Perugino, who by 1493 had settled mainly in Florence started to paint there. The fresco was "discovered" and open to the public in the 19th century. It was originally attributed to Raphael, who was a pupil of Perugino later, and whose early style is very similar to his, but it was eventually realized that it was a work by Perugino.. 
Madonna in Glory with Seraphim. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Madonna in Glory with Seraphim is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli, executed c. 1469-1470. It is housed in Galleria degli Uffizi, Florence.Some panel paintings of the Madonna by Botticelli remain from the years around 1470 which are striking expressions of Botticelli's stylistic development. Two full figure pictures of the Madonna - the Madonna in Glory and the Madonna of the Rosegarden - are in the Uffizi. They represent monumental seated figures filling the entire picture.. Madonna in Glory with Seraphim is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli, executed c. 1469-1470. It is housed in Galleria degli Uffizi, Florence. Some panel paintings of the Madonna by Botticelli remain from the years around 1470 which are striking expressions of Botticelli's stylistic development. Two full figure pictures of the Madonna - the Madonna in Glory and the Madonna of the Rosegarden - are in the Uffizi. They represent monumental seated figures filling the entire picture. Mary is enthroned on clouds in a glory of seraphim. The Christ Child, with the cruciform nimbus, is looking towards the observer and raising his hand in blessing. Botticelli has succeeded in expressing the tensions in this theme with sensitivity: the mother, who is fully aware of the Passion her son will suffer, is holding him protectively in her arms.. 
Crucifixion. Author Name: Barnaba da Modena. . . Crucifixion is a 1375 panel painting by Italian artist Barnaba da Modena, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It depicts the crucifixion of Jesus in tempera and gold.. Crucifixion is a 1375 panel painting by Italian artist Barnaba da Modena, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It depicts the crucifixion of Jesus in tempera and gold.. 
Ville d’Avray. Author Name: Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Ville d’Avray is an 1865 painting by French artist Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot. The painting is an Oil on canvas is currently on display at the National Gallery of Art in Washington D.C..The painting is of the commune where Corot lived in Ville d'Avray.. Ville d’Avray is an 1865 painting by French artist Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot. The painting is an Oil on canvas is currently on display at the National Gallery of Art in Washington D.C.. The painting is of the commune where Corot lived in Ville d'Avray.. 
Sleeping Muse. Author Name: Constantin Brâncuși. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Modernism. . The Sleeping Muse is a bronze sculpture created by Constantin Brâncuși in 1910. It was originally carved from marble using Baroness Renée Irana Franchon as the model. Refining the sculpture, Brâncuși cast several of the sculptures in bronze, which are now in museums around the world, including the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City and the Musée National d'Art Moderne in Paris. It is a model of a head, without a body, with markings to show features such as hair, nose, lips, and closed eyes. In A History of Western Art, Laurie Adams says that the sculpture has “an abstract, curvilinear quality and a smooth contour that create an impression of elegance.” By casting them in metal with a fine finish, these sculptures are "self-sufficient, archetypal modern forms".. The Sleeping Muse is a bronze sculpture created by Constantin Brâncuși in 1910. It was originally carved from marble using Baroness Renée Irana Franchon as the model. Refining the sculpture, Brâncuși cast several of the sculptures in bronze, which are now in museums around the world, including the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City and the Musée National d'Art Moderne in Paris. It is a model of a head, without a body, with markings to show features such as hair, nose, lips, and closed eyes. In A History of Western Art, Laurie Adams says that the sculpture has “an abstract, curvilinear quality and a smooth contour that create an impression of elegance.” By casting them in metal with a fine finish, these sculptures are "self-sufficient, archetypal modern forms".. 
Wood splitters. Author Name: Tom Roberts. . . Wood splitters is a 1886 painting by the Australian artist Tom Roberts. The painting depicts three rural labourers "splitting and stacking timber for the preparation of charcoal". Roberts, influenced by the Barbizon school and Jules Bastien-Lepage, would later return to the theme of rural men working in his works A break away! and Shearing the Rams.Roberts painted the picture from sketches made at a camp he made with Frederick McCubbin at Box Hill, then a rural locality east of Melbourne.. Wood splitters is a 1886 painting by the Australian artist Tom Roberts. The painting depicts three rural labourers "splitting and stacking timber for the preparation of charcoal". Roberts, influenced by the Barbizon school and Jules Bastien-Lepage, would later return to the theme of rural men working in his works A break away! and Shearing the Rams. Roberts painted the picture from sketches made at a camp he made with Frederick McCubbin at Box Hill, then a rural locality east of Melbourne. The painting was acquired by the Art Gallery of Ballarat in 1961. The work was stolen from the gallery in 1978. A ransom was paid the following year for the safe recovery of the painting from a park in Sydney.. 
George Washington. Author Name: Pompeo Coppini. . . George Washington is an outdoor 1926–27 bronze sculpture by Italian American artist Pompeo Coppini, located in northeast Portland, Oregon, in the United States.. George Washington is an outdoor 1926–27 bronze sculpture by Italian American artist Pompeo Coppini, located in northeast Portland, Oregon, in the United States.. 
George Washington. Author Name: John Quincy Adams Ward. . . George Washington is an outdoor bronze sculpture of George Washington by John Quincy Adams Ward, located in front of Federal Hall in New York City's Lower Manhattan, in the United States. The statue was unveiled in 1883 to commemorate Washington's 1789 inauguration in the building, which served as the capitol building of the United States at the time.The statue appears briefly in the 1976 remake of King Kong, when the giant ape passes the statue at night.[citation needed]. George Washington is an outdoor bronze sculpture of George Washington by John Quincy Adams Ward, located in front of Federal Hall in New York City's Lower Manhattan, in the United States. The statue was unveiled in 1883 to commemorate Washington's 1789 inauguration in the building, which served as the capitol building of the United States at the time. The statue appears briefly in the 1976 remake of King Kong, when the giant ape passes the statue at night.[citation needed]. 
The Great Day of His Wrath. Author Name: John Martin. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . The End of the World, commonly known as The Great Day of His Wrath, is an 1851–1853 oil painting on canvas by the English painter John Martin. According to Frances Carey, the painting shows the "destruction of Babylon and the material world by natural cataclysm". This painting, Frances Carey holds, is a response to the emerging industrial scene of London as a metropolis in the early nineteenth century, and the original growth of the Babylon civilisation and its final destruction. Some other scholars such as William Feaver see the painting as "the collapse of Edinburgh in Scotland". Charles F. Stuckey is sceptical of the link with Edinburgh. According to the Tate, the painting depicts a portion of Revelation 16, a chapter from the New Testament.. The End of the World, commonly known as The Great Day of His Wrath, is an 1851–1853 oil painting on canvas by the English painter John Martin. According to Frances Carey, the painting shows the "destruction of Babylon and the material world by natural cataclysm". This painting, Frances Carey holds, is a response to the emerging industrial scene of London as a metropolis in the early nineteenth century, and the original growth of the Babylon civilisation and its final destruction. Some other scholars such as William Feaver see the painting as "the collapse of Edinburgh in Scotland". Charles F. Stuckey is sceptical of the link with Edinburgh. According to the Tate, the painting depicts a portion of Revelation 16, a chapter from the New Testament. Leopold Martin, John Martin's son, said that his father found the inspiration for this painting on a night journey through the Black Country. This has led some scholars to hold that the rapid industrialisation of England in the early nineteenth century influenced Martin. Some authors have used the painting as the front cover for their books, examples include Mass of the Apocalypse and Studies in the Book of Revelation. The painting is one of three works that together form a triptych entitled The Last Judgment.. 
White House at Night. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . White House at Night is an oil on canvas painting created on 16 June 1890 at around 8:00 PM in the small town of Auvers-sur-Oise by Vincent van Gogh, a mere six weeks before his death. The exact time is known due to the position of planet Venus in the painting. Astronomers Donald Olson and Russell Doescher from the Texas State University-San Marcos calculated that the star in the painting must be Venus which was bright in the evening sky in June 1890.. White House at Night is an oil on canvas painting created on 16 June 1890 at around 8:00 PM in the small town of Auvers-sur-Oise by Vincent van Gogh, a mere six weeks before his death. The exact time is known due to the position of planet Venus in the painting. Astronomers Donald Olson and Russell Doescher from the Texas State University-San Marcos calculated that the star in the painting must be Venus which was bright in the evening sky in June 1890. The painting has a turbulent history. It was considered lost after World War II, but appeared in the Hermitage Museum in 1995 in an exhibition displaying artworks looted by the Soviets at the end of the war.. 
Pietà - Sexta Angustia. Author Name: Fernandez, Gregorio. . . The Pietà or Sexta Angustia (1619) is a work of Baroque sculpture by Gregorio Fernández, housed in the National Museum of Sculpture in Valladolid, Spain. The statue was commissioned by the Illustrious Penitential Brotherhood of Our Lady of Anguish. It is one of the best known of the five sculptures of the same theme by the artist.. The Pietà or Sexta Angustia (1619) is a work of Baroque sculpture by Gregorio Fernández, housed in the National Museum of Sculpture in Valladolid, Spain. The statue was commissioned by the Illustrious Penitential Brotherhood of Our Lady of Anguish. It is one of the best known of the five sculptures of the same theme by the artist. The sculpture shows the Virgin holding up one hands with Christ's body slumped lifeless to the floor. It was part of a "paso" which paraded in religious processions during Holly Week, together with the sculptures of the good thief and the impenitent thief, and Saint John and the Virgin Mary.. 
Portrait of my father. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Portrait of my father is a painting by Salvador Dalí currently exhibited at the National Art Museum of Catalonia (MNAC).. Portrait of my father is a painting by Salvador Dalí currently exhibited at the National Art Museum of Catalonia (MNAC).. 
Family of Don Philip of Bourbon. Author Name: Baldrighi, Giuseppe. . . The portrait of Don Philip of Bourbon Family is an oil painting on canvas ( 285x415 cm ) of Giuseppe Baldrighi, dated to about 1757 and preserved in the Galleria Nazionale Di Parma.. The portrait of Don Philip of Bourbon Family is an oil painting on canvas ( 285x415 cm ) of Giuseppe Baldrighi, dated to about 1757 and preserved in the Galleria Nazionale Di Parma.. 
Brushstroke. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Brushstroke is a sculpture by Roy Lichtenstein. Delivered to the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden on September 16, 2003, it was dedicated on October 25, 2003.. Brushstroke is a sculpture by Roy Lichtenstein. Delivered to the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden on September 16, 2003, it was dedicated on October 25, 2003.. 
General Winfield Scott Hancock. Author Name: Ellicott, Henry Jackson. . . General Winfield Scott Hancock is an equestrian statue of Winfield Scott Hancock, by Henry Jackson Ellicott together with architect Paul J. Pelz.It is located at Pennsylvania Avenue and 7th Street, Northwest, Washington, D.C.It was commissioned on March 2, 1889, and dedicated on May 12, 1896, by president Grover Cleveland. It cost $50,000.The statue is a contributing monument to the Civil War Monuments in Washington, DC, of the National Register of Historic Places.. General Winfield Scott Hancock is an equestrian statue of Winfield Scott Hancock, by Henry Jackson Ellicott together with architect Paul J. Pelz.It is located at Pennsylvania Avenue and 7th Street, Northwest, Washington, D.C. It was commissioned on March 2, 1889, and dedicated on May 12, 1896, by president Grover Cleveland. It cost $50,000. The statue is a contributing monument to the Civil War Monuments in Washington, DC, of the National Register of Historic Places.. 
Sunlight and Shadow: The Newbury Marshes. Author Name: Martin Johnson Heade. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Hudson_River_School. . Sunlight and Shadow: The Newbury Marshes (c. 1871-1875) is an oil on canvas landscape by Martin Johnson Heade acquired by the National Gallery of Art in 2010. Heade probably became acquainted with the salt marshes near the mouth of the Merrimack River at Newbury and Newburyport, Massachusetts in 1859 through Bishop Thomas March Clark. Sunlight and Shadow is one of the earliest of Heade's one hundred plus depictions of wetlands.. Sunlight and Shadow: The Newbury Marshes (c. 1871-1875) is an oil on canvas landscape by Martin Johnson Heade acquired by the National Gallery of Art in 2010. Heade probably became acquainted with the salt marshes near the mouth of the Merrimack River at Newbury and Newburyport, Massachusetts in 1859 through Bishop Thomas March Clark. Sunlight and Shadow is one of the earliest of Heade's one hundred plus depictions of wetlands. The National Gallery writes: "[Heade] depicted the tides, meteorological phenomena, and other natural forces that shaped the appearance of the swamp and showed how the land was used for hunting, fishing, and the harvesting of naturally occurring salt hay ... the painting's primary motif, sunlight and shadow, seen, for instance, in its intricate cloud shadows and the subtle movement from light to dark across the body of the haystack, informs and unites all its visual elements.". 
The Milkmaid. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . The Milkmaid (Dutch: De Melkmeid or Het Melkmeisje), sometimes called The Kitchen Maid, is an oil-on-canvas painting of a "milkmaid", in fact a domestic kitchen maid, by the Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer. It is now in the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, which regards it as "unquestionably one of the museum's finest attractions".. The Milkmaid (Dutch: De Melkmeid or Het Melkmeisje), sometimes called The Kitchen Maid, is an oil-on-canvas painting of a "milkmaid", in fact a domestic kitchen maid, by the Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer. It is now in the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, which regards it as "unquestionably one of the museum's finest attractions". The exact year of the painting's completion is unknown, with estimates varying by source. The Rijksmuseum estimates it as circa 1658. According to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City, it was painted in about 1657 or 1658. The "Essential Vermeer" website gives a broader range of 1658–1661.. 
Leland I. Author Name: Bonnie Bronson. . . Leland I, sometimes stylized as Leland 1 or Leland #1, is an outdoor 1975 sculpture by Lee Kelly and Bonnie Bronson, installed in Portland, Oregon, United States.. Leland I, sometimes stylized as Leland 1 or Leland #1, is an outdoor 1975 sculpture by Lee Kelly and Bonnie Bronson, installed in Portland, Oregon, United States.. 
A Mayor of Delft and his Daughter. Author Name: Jan Steen. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_Golden_Age_painting. . A Mayor of Delft and his Daughter (1655) is the common name of an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch painter Jan Steen. It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is part of the collection of the Rijksmuseum. Since 2006 it has been determined that a more historically correct title is Double portrait of Adolf Croeser (1612-1668) and his daughter Catharina Croeser (1642-....).. A Mayor of Delft and his Daughter (1655) is the common name of an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch painter Jan Steen. It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is part of the collection of the Rijksmuseum. Since 2006 it has been determined that a more historically correct title is Double portrait of Adolf Croeser (1612-1668) and his daughter Catharina Croeser (1642-....). This painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1910, who wrote; "878. SO-CALLED PORTRAIT OF THE BURGOMASTER OF DELFT AND HIS DAUGHTER. The man sits in the centre, upon the steps in front of his house ; he holds a sheet of paper. His daughter descends two steps to the left towards the spectator. The man is dressed in black ; the girl has a blue skirt and a greyish-purple gown. A beggar-woman in red, with a boy, addresses the man from the right. In the distance, to the right, is the tower of the Oude Kerk, at Delft ; to the left of the man's head is seen a small tower. A stone bridge, bearing the arms of the town, leads over the Oude Delft. To the left, in the window of the house, is a bouquet of flowers in a glass. The house projects slightly in front of the other houses in the street. The foliage of trees covers part of the picture. The picture is authentic, but not a masterpiece. The man's head is too large in relation to the girl. Since the sale of 1808 the picture has passed under the name of " The Burgomaster of Delft and his Daughter." If the tradition is correct, the persons represented are Geraldo Briel van Welhoeck (1593-1665) with his daughter Anna, who was born in 1638, and married in 1656 Adriaan Bogaert van Beloys. Signed in the full on the edge of a step, and dated 1655 ; canvas, 32 1/2inches by 27 inches. Exhibited at the Royal Academy Winter Exhibition, London, 1882, No. 238. Sales. E. M. Engelberts and Tersteeg, Amsterdam, June 13, 1808, No. 142 (75 florins, Nieuwenhuys). Domsert, London, 1811 (88, Charlesson). Purchased by Edward, Lord Penrhyn, from the dealer, Nieuwenhuys. Now in the collection of Lord Penrhyn, Penrhyn Castle." This painting was featured on the cover of Simon Schama's 1987 book The Embarrassment of Riches. After over a century at Penrhyn Castle, the painting was sold to the Rijksmuseum in July 2004 for 11.9 million euro's whereupon it became the most expensive painting purchase for the museum. The British government delayed issuance of an export license to give British institutions the chance to buy the painting, but after the sole interested party withdrew their offer in August, the export license was issued. In 2006 research on the portrayed Delft cityscape and the people portrayed resulted in a title change. It had already been assumed for over a century that the man in the painting was not the mayor of Delft.. 
Hopeless. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Hopeless is a 1963 painting with oil paint and acrylic paint on canvas by Roy Lichtenstein. The painting is in the collection of the Kunstmuseum Basel.. Hopeless is a 1963 painting with oil paint and acrylic paint on canvas by Roy Lichtenstein. The painting is in the collection of the Kunstmuseum Basel.. 
First Daughter. Author Name: John Brack. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Antipodeans. . First Daughter is a 1955 Modernist painting by Australian artist John Brack. The painting depicts his daughter Clara as a young girl kneeling on the floor drawing a person on a piece of paper. The subject is seen from above - from the viewpoint of a father.It was sold at auction by Christie's in 1971 and "disappeared from view", becoming part of various private collections.The painting was part of the private collection of Sydney banker, and co-founder of Macquarie Bank, David Clarke. It was sold at auction by Sotheby's in April 2015 for a hammer price of AUD725,000.. First Daughter is a 1955 Modernist painting by Australian artist John Brack. The painting depicts his daughter Clara as a young girl kneeling on the floor drawing a person on a piece of paper. The subject is seen from above - from the viewpoint of a father. The painting was first shown in the exhibition John Brack, at Peter Bray Gallery, Melbourne, 8-17 March 1955, for the price of 35 guineas; then at John Brack: The Sport of Kings and Other Paintings, at the Johnstone Gallery, Brisbane, 27 March - 8 April 1957, titled there 'Little Girl Drawing', and purchased for 40 guineas, by Mr J.C. Tritton, Brisbane. It was sold at auction by Christie's in 1971 and "disappeared from view", becoming part of various private collections. The painting was part of the private collection of Sydney banker, and co-founder of Macquarie Bank, David Clarke. It was sold at auction by Sotheby's in April 2015 for a hammer price of AUD725,000.. 
Jacopo Pesaro being presented by Pope Alexander VI to Saint Peter. Author Name: Titian. . . Jacopo Pesaro being presented by Pope Alexander VI to Saint Peter is a painting by Titian, now housed at the Royal Museum of Fine Arts in Antwerp. It is signed "Titiano F. C.". Jacopo Pesaro being presented by Pope Alexander VI to Saint Peter is a painting by Titian, now housed at the Royal Museum of Fine Arts in Antwerp. It is signed "Titiano F. C.". 
Terrasse au centre commercial, Central Park. Author Name: William Merritt Chase. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Terrace at the Mall, Central Park (French: Terrasse au centre commercial, Central Park) is an oil on panel painting by an American painter William Merritt Chase who was known as an exponent of Impressionism. It was completed in 1890 and is based on Impressionism style by use of landscape painting genre. The dimensions of the painting is 29.2 by 41.9 centimeters and is housed in a private collection.. Terrace at the Mall, Central Park (French: Terrasse au centre commercial, Central Park) is an oil on panel painting by an American painter William Merritt Chase who was known as an exponent of Impressionism. It was completed in 1890 and is based on Impressionism style by use of landscape painting genre. The dimensions of the painting is 29.2 by 41.9 centimeters and is housed in a private collection.. 
Heald Square Monument. Author Name: Crunelle, Leonard. . . The Heald Square Monument is a bronze sculpture group by Lorado Taft in Heald Square, Chicago, Illinois. It depicts General George Washington, and the two principal financers of the American Revolution, Robert Morris and Haym Salomon. Following Taft's 1936 death, the sculpture was completed by his associates Leonard Crunelle, Nellie Walker and Fred Torrey.Heald Square is located in the Michigan–Wacker Historic District of Chicago's Loop community area. The square was named for Captain Nathan Heald, commander of Fort Dearborn from 1810-1812.. The Heald Square Monument is a bronze sculpture group by Lorado Taft in Heald Square, Chicago, Illinois. It depicts General George Washington, and the two principal financers of the American Revolution, Robert Morris and Haym Salomon. Following Taft's 1936 death, the sculpture was completed by his associates Leonard Crunelle, Nellie Walker and Fred Torrey. Heald Square is located in the Michigan–Wacker Historic District of Chicago's Loop community area. The square was named for Captain Nathan Heald, commander of Fort Dearborn from 1810-1812. The sculpture was designated a Chicago Landmark on September 15, 1971.. 
Execution. Author Name: Yue, Minjun. . . Execution is a Chinese art painting by Beijing artist Yue Minjun. The piece was inspired by the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989, although the artist stated through translation that the art should not be viewed as depicting what happened at Tiananmen Square. In 2007 it became the most expensive work sold by a Chinese contemporary artist.. Execution is a Chinese art painting by Beijing artist Yue Minjun. The piece was inspired by the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989, although the artist stated through translation that the art should not be viewed as depicting what happened at Tiananmen Square. In 2007 it became the most expensive work sold by a Chinese contemporary artist.. 
Oliver P. Morton and Reliefs. Author Name: Rudolf Schwarz. . . Oliver P. Morton and Reliefs is a public artwork by Austrian artist Rudolph Schwarz, located on the east side of the Indiana Statehouse in Indianapolis, Indiana, at the intersection of North Capitol Avenue and West Market Street.. Oliver P. Morton and Reliefs is a public artwork by Austrian artist Rudolph Schwarz, located on the east side of the Indiana Statehouse in Indianapolis, Indiana, at the intersection of North Capitol Avenue and West Market Street.. 
Ex Stasis. Author Name: Richard Lippold. . . Ex Stasis is a public art work created by American artist Richard Lippold and located on the campus of Marquette University in downtown Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The abstract sculpture is a series of angular metallic planes set on a concrete pedestal. It is located near Marquette's Haggerty Museum of Art, but used to be the centerpiece of the west courtyard of the Alumni Memorial Union.. Ex Stasis is a public art work created by American artist Richard Lippold and located on the campus of Marquette University in downtown Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The abstract sculpture is a series of angular metallic planes set on a concrete pedestal. It is located near Marquette's Haggerty Museum of Art, but used to be the centerpiece of the west courtyard of the Alumni Memorial Union.. 
Early Sunday Morning. Author Name: Edward Hopper. . . Early Sunday Morning is a 1930 painting by Edward Hopper that portrays the small businesses and shops of Seventh Avenue in New York City shortly after sunrise, it is currently in the collection of the Whitney Museum of American Art.. Early Sunday Morning is a 1930 painting by Edward Hopper that portrays the small businesses and shops of Seventh Avenue in New York City shortly after sunrise, it is currently in the collection of the Whitney Museum of American Art.. 
Girl with a Flute. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . Girl with a Flute is a small painting attributed to the Dutch Golden Age painter Johannes Vermeer, executed 1665–1670. The work is in possession of the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C., just as Woman Holding a Balance, A Lady Writing a Letter and Girl with a Red Hat (also attributed to Vermeer).. Girl with a Flute is a small painting attributed to the Dutch Golden Age painter Johannes Vermeer, executed 1665–1670. The work is in possession of the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C., just as Woman Holding a Balance, A Lady Writing a Letter and Girl with a Red Hat (also attributed to Vermeer).. 
Lady with an Ermine. Author Name: Leonardo da Vinci. . . Lady with an Ermine (Italian: Dama con l'ermellino [ˈdaːma kon lermelˈliːno], literally "Lady with the Ermine") is a painting by Leonardo da Vinci from around 1489–1490. The subject of the portrait is Cecilia Gallerani, and painted at a time when she was the mistress of Ludovico Sforza, Duke of Milan, and Leonardo was in the service of the Duke. The painting is one of only four portraits of women painted by Leonardo, the others being the Mona Lisa, the portrait of Ginevra de' Benci, and La belle ferronnière. It is currently being displayed at Wawel Royal Castle whilst renovations are being carried out at the painting's home, Czartoryski Museum, Kraków, Poland.. Lady with an Ermine (Italian: Dama con l'ermellino [ˈdaːma kon lermelˈliːno], literally "Lady with the Ermine") is a painting by Leonardo da Vinci from around 1489–1490. The subject of the portrait is Cecilia Gallerani, and painted at a time when she was the mistress of Ludovico Sforza, Duke of Milan, and Leonardo was in the service of the Duke. The painting is one of only four portraits of women painted by Leonardo, the others being the Mona Lisa, the portrait of Ginevra de' Benci, and La belle ferronnière. It is currently being displayed at Wawel Royal Castle whilst renovations are being carried out at the painting's home, Czartoryski Museum, Kraków, Poland.. 
Waiting for the Interurban. Author Name: Beyer, Richard. . . Waiting for the Interurban, also known as People Waiting for the Interurban, is a 1979 cast aluminum sculpture collection in the Fremont neighborhood of Seattle. It is located on the southeast corner of N. 34th Street and Fremont Avenue N., just east of the northern end of the Fremont Bridge. It consists of six people and a dog standing under a shelter and waiting for public transportation — specifically, the Seattle-Everett Interurban. The six figures would have waited for a long time, as the mock stop faces 34th, rather than Fremont Ave where the real Interurban ran.. Waiting for the Interurban, also known as People Waiting for the Interurban, is a 1979 cast aluminum sculpture collection in the Fremont neighborhood of Seattle. It is located on the southeast corner of N. 34th Street and Fremont Avenue N., just east of the northern end of the Fremont Bridge. It consists of six people and a dog standing under a shelter and waiting for public transportation — specifically, the Seattle-Everett Interurban. The six figures would have waited for a long time, as the mock stop faces 34th, rather than Fremont Ave where the real Interurban ran. The sculptor, local resident Richard Beyer, included several subtleties in the sculpture which reward close viewing. There is also some needling of a local Fremont political leader and pioneer in municipal recycling, Armen Napoleon Stepanian. People living and working in the Fremont neighborhood often dress the characters in apparel appropriate to the season (termed "art attacks" by some), to the extent that those unfamiliar with the sculpture may not find it immediately obvious that those under the 'shelter' are actually statues. During the repairs of the Fremont Bridge in 2006-2007, the sculpture was moved about 100 meters east of its original location to History House, at the corner of N. 34th Street and Troll Avenue N., which runs up a hill to the Fremont Troll. History House also has exhibits showing some of the most imaginative displays by people who have decorated the statues over the years. The sculpture was returned to its original site following the completion of the Bridge repairs. In 2008, another sculpture was added down the street, known as Late for the Interurban. The statue portrays the 1970s Seattle TV clown J. P. Patches and his sidekick Gertrude.. 
Madonna of the Stairs. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Madonna of the Stairs (or Madonna of the Steps) is a relief sculpture by Michelangelo in the Casa Buonarroti, Florence. It was sculpted around 1491, when Michelangelo was about seventeen. This and the Battle of the Centaurs were Michelangelo's first two sculptures. The first reference to the Madonna of the Stairs as a work by Michelangelo was in the 1568 edition of Giorgio Vasari's Lives of the Most Excellent Painters, Sculptors, and Architects.. The Madonna of the Stairs (or Madonna of the Steps) is a relief sculpture by Michelangelo in the Casa Buonarroti, Florence. It was sculpted around 1491, when Michelangelo was about seventeen. This and the Battle of the Centaurs were Michelangelo's first two sculptures. The first reference to the Madonna of the Stairs as a work by Michelangelo was in the 1568 edition of Giorgio Vasari's Lives of the Most Excellent Painters, Sculptors, and Architects.. 
Self Portrait. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Self Portrait is a 1658 self portrait by Rembrandt, formerly owned by the Earl of Ilchester and now in the Frick Collection in New York.. The Self Portrait is a 1658 self portrait by Rembrandt, formerly owned by the Earl of Ilchester and now in the Frick Collection in New York.. 
Paintings on masonite. Author Name: Joan Miró. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . Paintings on masonite is a series of 27 abstract paintings made by Joan Miró using the type of proprietary hardboard known as Masonite, just after the Spanish Civil War started on 18 July 1936. These works break with his earlier phase which was known as his wild paintings period. This was a label established to describe the work done during the two years preceding the Civil War, between 1934 and 1936.. Paintings on masonite is a series of 27 abstract paintings made by Joan Miró using the type of proprietary hardboard known as Masonite, just after the Spanish Civil War started on 18 July 1936. These works break with his earlier phase which was known as his wild paintings period. This was a label established to describe the work done during the two years preceding the Civil War, between 1934 and 1936.. 
The Lovers. Author Name: Mark di Suvero. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . The Lovers is a public art work by artist Mark di Suvero located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture is an abstract form; it is installed on the lawn.. The Lovers is a public art work by artist Mark di Suvero located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture is an abstract form; it is installed on the lawn.. 
The Monarch of the Glen. Author Name: Sir Edwin Henry Landseer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Animalier. . The Monarch of the Glen is an oil-on-canvas painting of a red deer stag completed in 1851 by the English painter Sir Edwin Landseer, which was commissioned as part of a series of three panels to hang in the Palace of Westminster in London. It was one of the most popular paintings throughout the 19th century, and reproductions in steel engraving sold very widely, and the painting itself was finally bought by companies to use in advertising. The painting had become something of a cliché by the mid-20th century, as "the ultimate biscuit tin image of Scotland: a bulky stag set against the violet hills and watery skies of an isolated wilderness", according to the Sunday Herald.. The Monarch of the Glen is an oil-on-canvas painting of a red deer stag completed in 1851 by the English painter Sir Edwin Landseer, which was commissioned as part of a series of three panels to hang in the Palace of Westminster in London. It was one of the most popular paintings throughout the 19th century, and reproductions in steel engraving sold very widely, and the painting itself was finally bought by companies to use in advertising. The painting had become something of a cliché by the mid-20th century, as "the ultimate biscuit tin image of Scotland: a bulky stag set against the violet hills and watery skies of an isolated wilderness", according to the Sunday Herald. The painting is reportedly set in Glen Affric. The stag has twelve points on his antlers, which in deer terminology makes him a "royal stag" but not a "monarch stag", for which sixteen points are needed.. 
Bathsheba at Bath. Author Name: Paolo Veronese. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . Bathsheba at her Bath is a painting by Italian Renaissance painter Paolo Veronese, dated around 1575 and now in the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Lyon, France.. Bathsheba at her Bath is a painting by Italian Renaissance painter Paolo Veronese, dated around 1575 and now in the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Lyon, France.. 
Hendricks Monument. Author Name: Park, Richard Henry. . . The Thomas A. Hendricks Monument is a public artwork by American artist Richard Henry Park and is located on the southeast corner of the Indiana Statehouse grounds in Indianapolis, Indiana. The monument is a tribute to Thomas A. Hendricks (September 7, 1819 – November 25, 1885), the 21st Vice President of the United States (serving with Grover Cleveland). Hendricks was a former U.S. Representative and U.S. Senator from Indiana. He was the 16th Governor of Indiana and led the campaign to build the Indiana Statehouse.. The Thomas A. Hendricks Monument is a public artwork by American artist Richard Henry Park and is located on the southeast corner of the Indiana Statehouse grounds in Indianapolis, Indiana. The monument is a tribute to Thomas A. Hendricks (September 7, 1819 – November 25, 1885), the 21st Vice President of the United States (serving with Grover Cleveland). Hendricks was a former U.S. Representative and U.S. Senator from Indiana. He was the 16th Governor of Indiana and led the campaign to build the Indiana Statehouse. The sculpture is a full-length bronze portrait figure of Hendricks in formal attire with a long dress overcoat. The sculpture's pedestal is red Italian granite. Two bronze allegorical sculptures by Park, one on each side of the pedestal, represent "Justice" and "History".. 
Howard's Way. Author Name: Kelly, Lee. . . Howard's Way is an outdoor 2007 art installation comprising four stainless steel sculptures by American artist Lee Kelly, located in downtown Portland, Oregon. The work was commissioned by the Housing Authority of Portland for the downtown development project called "The Civic/The Morrison", and funded by the City of Portland's Percent for Art program and Civic Housing Development Services. The "suite" of sculptures were installed at the Civic Apartments (635 Southwest 19th Avenue) at West Burnside Street and Northwest 19th Avenue. Howard's Way shares its name with the plaza between two buildings in which is was installed; both are named for Howard Shapiro, the Housing Authority's former chair. The work's four pieces are 11 feet (3.4 m) tall and 1,300 lbs., 9 feet (2.7 m), 6 inches (15 cm). Howard's Way is an outdoor 2007 art installation comprising four stainless steel sculptures by American artist Lee Kelly, located in downtown Portland, Oregon. The work was commissioned by the Housing Authority of Portland for the downtown development project called "The Civic/The Morrison", and funded by the City of Portland's Percent for Art program and Civic Housing Development Services. The "suite" of sculptures were installed at the Civic Apartments (635 Southwest 19th Avenue) at West Burnside Street and Northwest 19th Avenue. Howard's Way shares its name with the plaza between two buildings in which is was installed; both are named for Howard Shapiro, the Housing Authority's former chair. The work's four pieces are 11 feet (3.4 m) tall and 1,300 lbs., 9 feet (2.7 m), 6 inches (15 cm) tall and 1,250 lbs., 2 feet (0.61 m) tall and 640 lbs., and 12 feet (3.7 m) tall and 1,050 lbs., respectively. It was dedicated in October 2007.. 
The Sacrament of the Last Supper. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The Sacrament of the Last Supper is a painting by Salvador Dalí. Completed in 1955, after nine months of work, it remains one of his most popular compositions. Since its arrival at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. in 1955, it replaced Renoir's A Girl with a Watering Can as the most popular piece in the museum.. The Sacrament of the Last Supper is a painting by Salvador Dalí. Completed in 1955, after nine months of work, it remains one of his most popular compositions. Since its arrival at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. in 1955, it replaced Renoir's A Girl with a Watering Can as the most popular piece in the museum.. 
Adam Mickiewicz Monument''' in Kraków, Poland. Author Name: Rygier, Teodor. . . Adam Mickiewicz Monument in Kraków, (Polish: pomnik Adama Mickiewicza w Krakowie), is one of the best known bronze monuments in Poland, and a favourite meeting place at the Main Market Square in the Old Town (Stare Miasto) district of Kraków.. Adam Mickiewicz Monument in Kraków, (Polish: pomnik Adama Mickiewicza w Krakowie), is one of the best known bronze monuments in Poland, and a favourite meeting place at the Main Market Square in the Old Town (Stare Miasto) district of Kraków. The statue of Adam Mickiewicz, the greatest Polish Romantic poet of the 19th century, was unveiled on June 16, 1898, on the 100th anniversary of his birth, in the presence of his daughter and son. It was designed by Teodor Rygier, a little-known sculptor at the time, who won the third and final competition for this project by popular demand ahead of over 60 artists in total, the renowned painter Jan Matejko included. Even though the first prize was awarded to famed Cyprian Godebski, professor at the Imperial Academy of Arts in St. Petersburg from Paris, with Rygier at a close second, for the final execution a more popular design by Rygier was accepted with a contract signed in November 1889. At the poet's feet are four allegoric groups symbolising the Motherland (from the face of the monument along Sienna Street), Science (facing north), Courage (facing Sukiennice Hall) and Poetry (facing Church of St. Wojciech, south). The inscription on the pedestal reads: "To Adam Mickiewicz, the Nation".. 
Two-Piece Reclining Figure: Points. Author Name: Henry Moore. . Author Movement: Bronze Sculpture, Modernism. . Two-Piece Reclining Figure: Points is a sculpture by Henry Moore, catalogued as LH 606, and created in 1969-70.. Two-Piece Reclining Figure: Points is a sculpture by Henry Moore, catalogued as LH 606, and created in 1969-70.. 
Christ in the House of His Parents. Author Name: Sir John Everett Millais, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pre-Raphaelite_Brotherhood. . Christ in the House of His Parents (1849–50) is a painting by John Everett Millais depicting the Holy Family in Saint Joseph's carpentry workshop. The painting was extremely controversial when first exhibited, prompting many negative reviews, most notably one written by Charles Dickens. It catapulted the previously obscure Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood to notoriety and was a major contributor to the debate about Realism in the arts.It is currently housed in the Tate Britain in London.. Christ in the House of His Parents (1849–50) is a painting by John Everett Millais depicting the Holy Family in Saint Joseph's carpentry workshop. The painting was extremely controversial when first exhibited, prompting many negative reviews, most notably one written by Charles Dickens. It catapulted the previously obscure Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood to notoriety and was a major contributor to the debate about Realism in the arts. It is currently housed in the Tate Britain in London.. 
Typewriter Eraser, Scale X. Author Name: Bruggen, Coosje van. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Typewriter Eraser, Scale X is a sculpture of a large-scale typewriter eraser by Claes Oldenburg and Coosje van Bruggen.Constructed in 1999, it is located at the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden.Other examples are also located at Seattle Art Museum Olympic Sculpture Park, and CityCenter, Paradise.. Typewriter Eraser, Scale X is a sculpture of a large-scale typewriter eraser by Claes Oldenburg and Coosje van Bruggen. Constructed in 1999, it is located at the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden.Other examples are also located at Seattle Art Museum Olympic Sculpture Park, and CityCenter, Paradise.. 
Notre-Dame, une fin d'après-midi. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . Notre-Dame, une fin d'après-midi ("A Glimpse of Notre-Dame in the Late Afternoon") is a painting by Henri Matisse from 1902. Its somber coloration is typical of Matisse's works executed between the end of 1901 and the end of 1903, a period of personal difficulties for the artist. This episode has been called Matisse's Dark Period.Inspired by Rodin and Barye, Matisse struggled to master volume in sculpture as well as in painting. He darkened his palette, with the results seen in the present work, and in such paintings as Carmelina (1903, in the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston).. Notre-Dame, une fin d'après-midi ("A Glimpse of Notre-Dame in the Late Afternoon") is a painting by Henri Matisse from 1902. Its somber coloration is typical of Matisse's works executed between the end of 1901 and the end of 1903, a period of personal difficulties for the artist. This episode has been called Matisse's Dark Period. Between 1896 and 1901, Matisse's painting had progressed from the subdued tones of his earliest works to an intense colorism that prefigured the Fauvism to come. In 1896 and 1897 he had traveled to Brittany, where the Australian painter John Peter Russell encouraged him to paint en plein air. Through Russell he met Camille Pissarro, whose influence was decisive in making a colorist of Matisse. In 1898 he traveled to London, where he studied the works of J. M. W. Turner; then, after a year spent in Corsica and Toulouse, he returned to Paris, where the startling boldness of his work was admired by other young artists. His paintings found few buyers, however, and his wife, Amélie, had to open a dress shop to support their household. In May 1902 a major financial scandal, the Humbert Affair, unexpectedly ensnared Amélie's family. Her mother was the Humbert family's housekeeper, and both she and her husband became scapegoats in the scandal. As a result, Matisse was forced to spend much of his time during the next year dealing with lawyers and journalists. His studio was searched by detectives, and his wife's family was menaced by angry mobs of fraud victims. According to art historian Hilary Spurling, "their public exposure, followed by the arrest of his father-in-law, left Matisse as the sole breadwinner for an extended family of seven. This is why he switched to painting canvases that were at least potentially saleable". Inspired by Rodin and Barye, Matisse struggled to master volume in sculpture as well as in painting. He darkened his palette, with the results seen in the present work, and in such paintings as Carmelina (1903, in the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston). The medium is oil on paper mounted on canvas and it measures 72.5 × 54.5 cm (28½ × 21½ in). The painting is in the Albright–Knox Art Gallery, Buffalo, New York.. 
Stone Age in America. Author Name: Boyle, John. . . Stone Age in America is a bronze statue by John J. Boyle.It is located in Fairmount Park, on Kelly Drive, near Boathouse Row.It was completed in 1887, and displayed at the American Art Association. In 1888, it was exhibited in Philadelphia. It was temporarily shown at 9th and Chestnut streets.It was at the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition.Stone Age in America is one of 51 sculptures included in the Association for Public Art's Museum Without Walls: AUDIO™ interpretive audio program for Philadelphia's outdoor sculpture.Presented 1888. Stone Age in America is a bronze statue by John J. Boyle.It is located in Fairmount Park, on Kelly Drive, near Boathouse Row. It was completed in 1887, and displayed at the American Art Association. In 1888, it was exhibited in Philadelphia. It was temporarily shown at 9th and Chestnut streets.It was at the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition.Stone Age in America is one of 51 sculptures included in the Association for Public Art's Museum Without Walls: AUDIO™ interpretive audio program for Philadelphia's outdoor sculpture. The inscription reads:BoyleThiebaut. FreresFondeurs (Base, circular bronze plaque:) Fairmont Park Art Association Presented 1888. 
The Temptations of Christ. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Temptations of Christ is a fresco by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli, executed in 1480–1482 and located in the Sistine Chapel, Rome.. The Temptations of Christ is a fresco by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli, executed in 1480–1482 and located in the Sistine Chapel, Rome.. 
Portrait of the Vendramin Family. Author Name: Titian. . . The Portrait of the Vendramin Family is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Titian, executed around 1543–1547. It presently hangs in the National Gallery in London.The canvas was commissioned by the noble Vendramin family, and portrays, as dictated by Venetian custom, only male members of the dynasty. It includes the brothers Andrea and Gabriele Vendramin, and Andrea's seven sons. However Andrea was apparently only three years older than Gabriele, which one would not think from the two figures here. It remains uncertain which depicted by Vittore Carpaccio, Gentile Bellini and other artists in a series of paintings for the Scuola Grande di San Giovanni Evangelista. When accidentally dropped into a canal during a congested procession the relic did not sink but hovered over the water. The Portrait of the Vendramin Family is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Titian, executed around 1543–1547. It presently hangs in the National Gallery in London. The canvas was commissioned by the noble Vendramin family, and portrays, as dictated by Venetian custom, only male members of the dynasty. It includes the brothers Andrea and Gabriele Vendramin, and Andrea's seven sons. However Andrea was apparently only three years older than Gabriele, which one would not think from the two figures here. It remains uncertain which depicted by Vittore Carpaccio, Gentile Bellini and other artists in a series of paintings for the Scuola Grande di San Giovanni Evangelista. When accidentally dropped into a canal during a congested procession the relic did not sink but hovered over the water, evading others trying to help, until an earlier Andrea Vendramin dived in and retrieved it. This Andrea had been presented with the relic in 1369, in his capacity as head of the confraternity or Scuola of San Giovanni Evangelista. Both the large Bellini painting, The Miracle of the True Cross near San Lorenzo Bridge, of 1496–1500, and the Carpaccio of 1494, are now in the Accademia museum in Venice. Titian's painting has been described as, "one of the greatest group portraits in history". It balances youth and wisdom as well as demonstrating the power of this family and their public commitments to the Republic. The relic is a central part of the portrait and was seen as both a symbol of the Serene Republic, and a personal symbol for the Vendramin family. The painting remained in Venice until at least 1636 when it was bought by Anthony van Dyck who was painter at the court of Charles I. After his death it was bought by the Earl of Northumberland and passed by descent through the Earls and Dukes of Northumberland and Somerset until 1929, when it was bought by the National Gallery. At some point it has been cut down on both sides and at the bottom.. 
Covered Wagon. Author Name: Leo Friedlander. . . Covered Wagon, also known as Oregon Trail Immigrants Memorial and Pioneer Family, is an outdoor 1934 white marble sculpture by Leo Friedlander installed outside the Oregon State Capitol in Salem, Oregon, United States.. Covered Wagon, also known as Oregon Trail Immigrants Memorial and Pioneer Family, is an outdoor 1934 white marble sculpture by Leo Friedlander installed outside the Oregon State Capitol in Salem, Oregon, United States.. 
Burning Cigarette. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Skull of a Skeleton with Burning Cigarette (Dutch: Kop van een skelet met brandende sigaret) is an early work by Vincent van Gogh. The small and undated oil-on-canvas painting featuring a skeleton and cigarette is part of the permanent collection of the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam. It was probably painted in the winter of 1885–86 as a humorous comment on conservative academic practices – before painting live human models, the academic routine would have included studies of skeletons, to develop an understanding of human anatomy - an assumption based on the fact that Van Gogh was in Antwerp at that time, attending classes at the Royal Academy of Fine Arts, classes he would later say were boring and taught him nothing.. Skull of a Skeleton with Burning Cigarette (Dutch: Kop van een skelet met brandende sigaret) is an early work by Vincent van Gogh. The small and undated oil-on-canvas painting featuring a skeleton and cigarette is part of the permanent collection of the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam. It was probably painted in the winter of 1885–86 as a humorous comment on conservative academic practices – before painting live human models, the academic routine would have included studies of skeletons, to develop an understanding of human anatomy - an assumption based on the fact that Van Gogh was in Antwerp at that time, attending classes at the Royal Academy of Fine Arts, classes he would later say were boring and taught him nothing. Van Gogh included skeletons in another work from his Antwerp period, a sketch of a "Hanging skeleton and cat". In 1887–88,[citation needed] van Gogh painted two more paintings with skulls, the only other works of his (besides a drawing from the same period) to use skulls as a motif. The work measures 32 by 24.5 centimetres (12.6 in × 9.6 in). It is considered a vanitas or momento mori, at a time when Van Gogh himself in poor health. It may be influenced by works of Hercules Segers, a 17th-century Dutch artist, or of Félicien Rops, a Belgian contemporary of Van Gogh. Although often interpreted as a criticism of smoking, Van Gogh was a keen smoker himself, and continued to smoke until his death in 1890. In 2008, the painting was used by graphic designer Chip Kidd on the first edition cover for When You Are Engulfed in Flames, a collection of essays written by David Sedaris. Sedaris is said to have been "fascinated with the image" after seeing it on a postcard during a trip to Amsterdam. The painting was held by Van Gogh's brother Theo Van Gogh at the time of his death in 1891. It was inherited by his widow Johanna van Gogh-Bonger until her death in 1925, and then by their son Vincent Willem van Gogh until 1962, when it was acquired by the Van Gogh Foundation. It was on loan to the Stedelijk Museum from 1962 to 1973, and has been on permanent loan to the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam since 1973.. 
Untitled. Author Name: Kelly, Lee. . . Untitled is an outdoor 1975 sculpture by Lee Kelly, installed at Louisa Boren Park in Seattle, Washington, in the United States. The abstract, welded Cor-Ten steel piece measures approximately 19 feet (5.8 m) x 14 feet (4.3 m) x 10 feet (3.0 m). It was surveyed and deemed "treatment needed" by the Smithsonian Institution's "Save Outdoor Sculpture!" program in November 1994. The work is part of the Seattle One Percent for Art Collection and administered by the Seattle Arts Commission.. Untitled is an outdoor 1975 sculpture by Lee Kelly, installed at Louisa Boren Park in Seattle, Washington, in the United States. The abstract, welded Cor-Ten steel piece measures approximately 19 feet (5.8 m) x 14 feet (4.3 m) x 10 feet (3.0 m). It was surveyed and deemed "treatment needed" by the Smithsonian Institution's "Save Outdoor Sculpture!" program in November 1994. The work is part of the Seattle One Percent for Art Collection and administered by the Seattle Arts Commission.. 
Fundamentalism. Author Name: Galschiot, Jens. . . Fundamentalism is a monumental bronze sculpture by Jens Galschiot consisting of the letters in the word 'FUNDAMENTALISM'. The sculpture is expected to be finished in 2015. The sculpture is a part of the dialog project The children of Abraham, which is created by the artist Jens Galschiot.. Fundamentalism is a monumental bronze sculpture by Jens Galschiot consisting of the letters in the word 'FUNDAMENTALISM'. The sculpture is expected to be finished in 2015. The sculpture is a part of the dialog project The children of Abraham, which is created by the artist Jens Galschiot.. 
Female Portrait. Author Name: Lucas Cranach the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/German_Renaissance. . The Female Portrait is a painting by German Renaissance master Lucas Cranach the Elder, dating from around 1530, now housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence, Italy.The work was executed by Cranach's workshop basing on his drawing. It depicts a woman, taken from three-quarters on a dark background, who wears an Arabesqued dress and a large, plumed hat in the contemporary fashion, which appears in variants in paintings by Cranach as well as by other German artists of the time.. The Female Portrait is a painting by German Renaissance master Lucas Cranach the Elder, dating from around 1530, now housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence, Italy. The work was executed by Cranach's workshop basing on his drawing. It depicts a woman, taken from three-quarters on a dark background, who wears an Arabesqued dress and a large, plumed hat in the contemporary fashion, which appears in variants in paintings by Cranach as well as by other German artists of the time.. 
The Goat Amalthea with the Infant Jupiter and a Faun. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Goat Amalthea with the Infant Jupiter and a Faun is the earliest known work by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Produced sometime between 1609 and 1615, the sculpture is now in the Borghese Collection at the Galleria Borghese in Rome.. The Goat Amalthea with the Infant Jupiter and a Faun is the earliest known work by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Produced sometime between 1609 and 1615, the sculpture is now in the Borghese Collection at the Galleria Borghese in Rome.. 
Pulitzer Fountain. Author Name: Karl Bitter. . . Pulitzer Fountain is an outdoor fountain designed by Karl Bitter and architect Thomas Hastings, located in Manhattan's Grand Army Plaza in New York. The 22-foot-tall ornamental fountain, dedicated in 1916, was donated by Joseph Pulitzer to complement William Tecumseh Sherman. The allegorical bronze statue Pomona, depicting the goddess of abundance holding a basket of fruit, modeled by Doris Doscher, sits at the top of the fountain. Bitter died while working on Pomona, so it was completed by his assistant Karl Gruppe and Isidore Konti.. Pulitzer Fountain is an outdoor fountain designed by Karl Bitter and architect Thomas Hastings, located in Manhattan's Grand Army Plaza in New York. The 22-foot-tall ornamental fountain, dedicated in 1916, was donated by Joseph Pulitzer to complement William Tecumseh Sherman. The allegorical bronze statue Pomona, depicting the goddess of abundance holding a basket of fruit, modeled by Doris Doscher, sits at the top of the fountain. Bitter died while working on Pomona, so it was completed by his assistant Karl Gruppe and Isidore Konti. Funds to restore the fountain were provided in 1936 by the prominent architect and historic preservationist Dan Everett Waid.. 
Portrait of Madame Marie-Louise Trudaine. Author Name: Jacques-Louis David. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . The Portrait of Madame Marie-Louise Trudaine is an unfinished 1791–1792 portrait of Marie-Louise Trudaine by the French painter Jacques-Louis David. It was commissioned from David by her brothers-in-law, the Trudaine brothers (the Trudaine family had provided France with major civil servants such as Daniel-Charles Trudaine since the 17th century) who welcomed David, the poet André Chénier and other major artists of the time to their Parisian salon at place des Vosges. It shows her seated on a simple chaisse, with her hands crossed on her lap and wearing a sober dress, a blue waist-sash and a white collar. Her expression is worried and reinforced by the tormented background and her unkempt hair. David became radicalised at the time of the French Revolution in 1792, was elected a deputy to t. The Portrait of Madame Marie-Louise Trudaine is an unfinished 1791–1792 portrait of Marie-Louise Trudaine by the French painter Jacques-Louis David. It was commissioned from David by her brothers-in-law, the Trudaine brothers (the Trudaine family had provided France with major civil servants such as Daniel-Charles Trudaine since the 17th century) who welcomed David, the poet André Chénier and other major artists of the time to their Parisian salon at place des Vosges. It shows her seated on a simple chaisse, with her hands crossed on her lap and wearing a sober dress, a blue waist-sash and a white collar. Her expression is worried and reinforced by the tormented background and her unkempt hair. David became radicalised at the time of the French Revolution in 1792, was elected a deputy to the National Convention, and became an extremist—unlike the Trudaine family, who opted for obscurity. David left the portrait unfinished.. 
Harvey W. Scott. Author Name: Gutzon Borglum. . . Harvey W. Scott, or simply Harvey Scott, is a 1933 bronze sculpture by Gutzon Borglum depicting American pioneer, newspaper editor and historian Harvey W. Scott, located at Mount Tabor Park in the Mount Tabor neighborhood of Portland, Oregon.. Harvey W. Scott, or simply Harvey Scott, is a 1933 bronze sculpture by Gutzon Borglum depicting American pioneer, newspaper editor and historian Harvey W. Scott, located at Mount Tabor Park in the Mount Tabor neighborhood of Portland, Oregon.. 
Christ Crowned with Thorns. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . Christ Crowned with Thorns is a painting by Hieronymus Bosch created sometime between 1495 and 1500. It currently resides at National Gallery in London.This painting is not to be confused the another version with the same name, Christ Crowned with Thorns.es:La Coronación de espinasit:Incoronazione di spine (Bosch, Londra)ru:Увенчание терновым венцом (картина Босха, Лондон). Christ Crowned with Thorns is a painting by Hieronymus Bosch created sometime between 1495 and 1500. It currently resides at National Gallery in London. This painting is not to be confused the another version with the same name, Christ Crowned with Thorns.es:La Coronación de espinasit:Incoronazione di spine (Bosch, Londra)ru:Увенчание терновым венцом (картина Босха, Лондон). 
The Catskills. Author Name: Asher Brown Durand. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Hudson_River_School. . Asher Brown Durand was an American engraver, portraitist, and landscape artist. Durand's painting entitled, The Catskills, was commissioned by William Thompson Walters in 1858.. Asher Brown Durand was an American engraver, portraitist, and landscape artist. Durand's painting entitled, The Catskills, was commissioned by William Thompson Walters in 1858.. 
In the Car. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . In the Car (sometimes Driving) is a 1963 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein. The smaller, older of the two versions of this painting formerly held the record for highest auction price for a Lichtenstein painting. The larger version has been in the collection of the Scottish National Gallery of Modern Art in Edinburgh since 1980.. In the Car (sometimes Driving) is a 1963 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein. The smaller, older of the two versions of this painting formerly held the record for highest auction price for a Lichtenstein painting. The larger version has been in the collection of the Scottish National Gallery of Modern Art in Edinburgh since 1980.. 
Memory of the Garden at Etten. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Van Gogh's family in his art is a group of works that Vincent van Gogh made for or about Van Gogh family members. In 1881 Van Gogh drew a portrait of his grandfather, Vincent van Gogh, and his sister Wil. While living in Nuenen, Van Gogh memorialized his father in Still Life with Bible following his death in 1885. There he also made many paintings and drawings in 1884 and 1885 of his parent's vicarage, its garden and the church. At the height of his career in Arles he made Portrait of the Artist's Mother, Memory of the Garden at Etten of his mother and sister and Novel Reader, which is thought to be of his sister, Wil.. Van Gogh's family in his art is a group of works that Vincent van Gogh made for or about Van Gogh family members. In 1881 Van Gogh drew a portrait of his grandfather, Vincent van Gogh, and his sister Wil. While living in Nuenen, Van Gogh memorialized his father in Still Life with Bible following his death in 1885. There he also made many paintings and drawings in 1884 and 1885 of his parent's vicarage, its garden and the church. At the height of his career in Arles he made Portrait of the Artist's Mother, Memory of the Garden at Etten of his mother and sister and Novel Reader, which is thought to be of his sister, Wil. While Van Gogh was at the Saint-Paul Asylum, Saint-Remy, he made several paintings as gifts for his mother and sister, and the painting Almond Blossoms for his brother Theo and his wife Johanna to celebrate the birth of their son whom they named Vincent.. 
Lady Cockburn and Her Three Eldest Sons. Author Name: Sir Joshua Reynolds. . . Lady Cockburn and Her Three Eldest Sons (1775) is an oil on canvas portrait by Joshua Reynolds. Work began on the picture in 1773, and, in Grand Manner fashion, Reynolds exploited two classical paintings: the attitude of the child on the left was modelled on Cupid in Velázquez's Toilet of Venus whilst the general composition was inspired by Anthony van Dyck's Charity. The painting passed to Mister Cockburn's son George, and then to his daughter, Mister Hamilton, the wife of Sir James Hamilton.It was bequeathed to London's National Gallery in 1906. The painting is one of the few signed by Reynolds: Lady Cockburn's dress bears his signature and the year 1775.. Lady Cockburn and Her Three Eldest Sons (1775) is an oil on canvas portrait by Joshua Reynolds. Work began on the picture in 1773, and, in Grand Manner fashion, Reynolds exploited two classical paintings: the attitude of the child on the left was modelled on Cupid in Velázquez's Toilet of Venus whilst the general composition was inspired by Anthony van Dyck's Charity. The painting passed to Mister Cockburn's son George, and then to his daughter, Mister Hamilton, the wife of Sir James Hamilton.It was bequeathed to London's National Gallery in 1906. The painting is one of the few signed by Reynolds: Lady Cockburn's dress bears his signature and the year 1775. Lady Cockburn (Augusta Anne Ayscough, 1749–1837) was the daughter of Francis Ayscough and his wife Anne. She married Sir James Cockburn (/ˈkoʊbərn/, Scottish English: [ˈkobʌɾn]) the 8th Baronet and became Lady Cockburn of Langton in Berwick in 1769. The marriage was made as the result of a large marriage settlement of twenty thousand pounds which was arranged by her maternal uncle, Sir George Lyttlelton, her widowed mother and her brother George Edward Ayscough. The money was raised on her father's estate and included three houses in London and two farms. Lady Cockburn's first three sons are depicted in the portrait. The first son, James (b. 1771), became the 9th baronet and Governor of Bermuda (1811–1819), and her second son, George (b. 1772) became an Admiral of the Fleet and the 10th Baronet. Her third son, William (b. 1773) became the Dean of York, and her fourth son, Alexander (b. 1776), became British envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary to Württemberg and the Columbia District whilst her fifth son, Francis, (b. 1776) became a general after being involved in the early history of Canada as a colony and serving in diplomatic positions in the Bahamas and British Honduras. Lady Cockburn's daughter, Augusta, was wed in 1807.. 
The Peasant Dance. Author Name: Pieter Bruegel the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_and_Flemish_Renaissance_painting. . The Peasant Dance is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in c. 1569. It is currently held and exhibited at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna.. The Peasant Dance is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in c. 1569. It is currently held and exhibited at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna.. 
Carvings. Author Name: Hermant, Leon. . . Carvings (Indiana State Library), is a series of bas-relief limestone panels decorating the facade of the Indiana State Library in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. The reliefs were designed by artist Leon Hermant and carved by German sculptor Adolph Wolter in 1934. The panels on the east facade are approximately 80 × 80 × 5 inches, the low panels on the east facade are approximately 18 × 18 × 1½ inches and the classical figures are each approximately three feet by two feet by three inches. The library building was dedicated Dec. 7, 1934.. Carvings (Indiana State Library), is a series of bas-relief limestone panels decorating the facade of the Indiana State Library in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. The reliefs were designed by artist Leon Hermant and carved by German sculptor Adolph Wolter in 1934. The panels on the east facade are approximately 80 × 80 × 5 inches, the low panels on the east facade are approximately 18 × 18 × 1½ inches and the classical figures are each approximately three feet by two feet by three inches. The library building was dedicated Dec. 7, 1934.. 
Portrait of Suzanne Bloch. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Portrait of Suzanne Bloch is a painting executed by the Spanish artist Pablo Picasso in Paris in 1904, towards the end of his blue period. The subject, Suzanne Bloch, was a singer known for her Wagner interpretations, and the sister of the violinist Henri Bloch.. Portrait of Suzanne Bloch is a painting executed by the Spanish artist Pablo Picasso in Paris in 1904, towards the end of his blue period. The subject, Suzanne Bloch, was a singer known for her Wagner interpretations, and the sister of the violinist Henri Bloch.. 
Ancient Rome. Author Name: Giovanni Paolo Panini. . . Ancient Rome is an oil on canvas painting by Giovanni Paolo Panini. It is owned by and on display at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. Panini painted the piece as a pendant painting to Modern Rome for the Count de Stainville in 1757. The painting depicts many of the most significant architectural sites and sculptures from Ancient Rome, such as the Colosseum, the Pantheon, Laocoön and His Sons, and Farnese Hercules. Both Panini and Panini's patron the Count de Stainville make an appearance in the work. Panini sits in the armchair and the Count de Stainville stands holding a guidebook.. Ancient Rome is an oil on canvas painting by Giovanni Paolo Panini. It is owned by and on display at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. Panini painted the piece as a pendant painting to Modern Rome for the Count de Stainville in 1757. The painting depicts many of the most significant architectural sites and sculptures from Ancient Rome, such as the Colosseum, the Pantheon, Laocoön and His Sons, and Farnese Hercules. Both Panini and Panini's patron the Count de Stainville make an appearance in the work. Panini sits in the armchair and the Count de Stainville stands holding a guidebook. 16x16px Media related to Ancient Rome (Giovanni Paolo Pannini) at Wikimedia Commons. 
Francesca da Rimini and Paolo Malatesta appraised by Dante and Virgil. Author Name: Ary Scheffer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . Francesca da Rimini and Paolo Malatesta appraised by Dante and Virgil is the title of three paintings by Ary Scheffer, all oils on canvas showing a scene from Dante's Inferno of Dante and Virgil viewing Francesca da Rimini and Paolo Malatesta in Hell.. Francesca da Rimini and Paolo Malatesta appraised by Dante and Virgil is the title of three paintings by Ary Scheffer, all oils on canvas showing a scene from Dante's Inferno of Dante and Virgil viewing Francesca da Rimini and Paolo Malatesta in Hell. The first version was painted in 1835 and measures 166.5 by 234 centimetres (65.6 by 92.1 in); it is now in the Wallace Collection in London. The second version (1854), measuring 51.7 by 81.3 centimetres (20.4 by 32.0 in), is in the Hamburger Kunsthalle. The third version (1855) is now in the Louvre in Paris, with Louvre Classification: R.F. 1217. Another version from 1851 measuring 24.7 by 33.2 centimetres (9.7 by 13.1 in) hangs at the Cleveland Museum of Art, Ohio.. 
The Merciful Knight. Author Name: Sir Edward Burne-Jones, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Aestheticism. . The Merciful Knight is a watercolour by the pre-Raphaelite artist Edward Burne-Jones which was completed in 1863 and is currently housed at the Birmingham Museum & Art Gallery.. The Merciful Knight is a watercolour by the pre-Raphaelite artist Edward Burne-Jones which was completed in 1863 and is currently housed at the Birmingham Museum & Art Gallery.. 
Madonna Terranuova. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Madonna with Child, St. John and a Child Saint is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael, who finished it around 1504-1505. It is also known as Madonna Terranuova as it belonged to the Italian Dukes of Terranuova, from whom it went to Berlin's Staatliche Museen, where it can still be seen, in 1854.. The Madonna with Child, St. John and a Child Saint is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael, who finished it around 1504-1505. It is also known as Madonna Terranuova as it belonged to the Italian Dukes of Terranuova, from whom it went to Berlin's Staatliche Museen, where it can still be seen, in 1854.. 
Mr. Bellamy. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Mr. Bellamy is a 1961 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein in his comic book style of using Ben-Day dots and a text balloon. The work is regarded as one of the better examples of Lichtenstein's sense of humor. The work is held in the collection at the Modern Art Museum of Fort Worth.. Mr. Bellamy is a 1961 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein in his comic book style of using Ben-Day dots and a text balloon. The work is regarded as one of the better examples of Lichtenstein's sense of humor. The work is held in the collection at the Modern Art Museum of Fort Worth.. 
The Threatened Swan. Author Name: Jan Asselijn. . . The Threatened Swan (Dutch: De bedreigde zwaan) is an oil painting of a swan made around 1650 by Dutch Golden Age painter Jan Asselijn. The work is in the collection of the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam in the Netherlands.The oil painting on canvas is 144 centimetres (57 in) high and 171 centimetres (67 in) wide. The painting's subject is a life-size mute swan (Cygnus olor) defending its nest against a dog. At the bottom right, the painting is signed with the monogram "A".. The Threatened Swan (Dutch: De bedreigde zwaan) is an oil painting of a swan made around 1650 by Dutch Golden Age painter Jan Asselijn. The work is in the collection of the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam in the Netherlands. The oil painting on canvas is 144 centimetres (57 in) high and 171 centimetres (67 in) wide. The painting's subject is a life-size mute swan (Cygnus olor) defending its nest against a dog. At the bottom right, the painting is signed with the monogram "A". By 1880, the painting was interpreted as a political allegory of grand pensionary (the highest official in the Dutch Republic) Johan de Witt protecting the country from its enemies. Three inscriptions had been added: the words "de raad-pensionaris" (the grand pensionary) between the swan's legs, the words "de viand van de staat" (the enemy of the state) above the head of the dog on the left, and the name "Holland" on the egg on the right.. 
Pygmalion and the Image: The Heart Desires. Author Name: Sir Edward Burne-Jones, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Aestheticism. . Pygmalion and the Image is the second series of four oil paintings in the Pygmalion and Galatea series by the Pre-Raphaelite artist Edward Burne-Jones which was completed between 1875 and 1878. The two collections may be seen below, in the , the first being now owned by Lord Lloyd Webber, and the second housed at the Birmingham Museum & Art Gallery. This article deals with an appraisal of the second series.. Pygmalion and the Image is the second series of four oil paintings in the Pygmalion and Galatea series by the Pre-Raphaelite artist Edward Burne-Jones which was completed between 1875 and 1878. The two collections may be seen below, in the , the first being now owned by Lord Lloyd Webber, and the second housed at the Birmingham Museum & Art Gallery. This article deals with an appraisal of the second series.. 
The Fog Warning. Author Name: Winslow Homer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Fog Warning is one of several paintings by the late-19th-century American painter Winslow Homer (1836-1910) on marine subjects. Together with The Herring Net and Breezing Up, painted the same year and also depicting the hard lives of fishermen in Maine, it is considered among his best works on such topics.. The Fog Warning is one of several paintings by the late-19th-century American painter Winslow Homer (1836-1910) on marine subjects. Together with The Herring Net and Breezing Up, painted the same year and also depicting the hard lives of fishermen in Maine, it is considered among his best works on such topics.. 
Bords de la Seine à Argenteuil. Author Name: Claude Monet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Bords de la Seine à Argenteuil (Banks of the Seine at Argenteuil) is an oil painting widely accepted by leading fine arts experts to be a work by Claude Monet. The painting is a landscape depicting the River Seine at Argenteuil in France. It is owned by Englishman David Joel.It was featured on the British TV programme, Fake or Fortune?. Bords de la Seine à Argenteuil (Banks of the Seine at Argenteuil) is an oil painting widely accepted by leading fine arts experts to be a work by Claude Monet. The painting is a landscape depicting the River Seine at Argenteuil in France. It is owned by Englishman David Joel. It was featured on the British TV programme, Fake or Fortune?. 
Women in the Garden. Author Name: Claude Monet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Women in the Garden (French: Femmes au jardin) is an oil painting begun in 1866 by French artist Claude Monet when he was 26. It is a large work painted en plein air; the size of the canvas necessitated Monet painting its upper half with the canvas lowered into a trench he had dug, so that he could maintain a single point of view for the entire work. The setting is the garden of a property he was renting. His companion Camille posed for the figures. Monet finished the work indoors, and used magazine illustrations to render fashionable clothing.. Women in the Garden (French: Femmes au jardin) is an oil painting begun in 1866 by French artist Claude Monet when he was 26. It is a large work painted en plein air; the size of the canvas necessitated Monet painting its upper half with the canvas lowered into a trench he had dug, so that he could maintain a single point of view for the entire work. The setting is the garden of a property he was renting. His companion Camille posed for the figures. Monet finished the work indoors, and used magazine illustrations to render fashionable clothing. Monet at this time was early in his career, experimenting with method and subject matter. His earlier paintings were successful at Paris Salons, but Women in the Garden was rejected in 1867 on the grounds of subject and narrative weakness. The Salon was also troubled by Monet's heavy brushstrokes, a style which would, of course, become one of the hallmarks of Impressionism. A judge commented, "Too many young people think of nothing but continuing in this abominable direction. It is high time to protect them and save art!" The painting was purchased by fellow artist Frédéric Bazille to help support Monet at a time when he had no money. Although the Musée d'Orsay, the painting's owner, comments that "Monet has skilfully rendered the white of the dresses, anchoring them firmly in the structure of the composition", Christoph Heinrich, author of a Monet biography, notes how posterity has found the painting lacking. In this view, the figures appear poorly integrated into the scene, with the woman at right "gliding across the ground as if she had a trolley concealed beneath her dress". The painting's treatment of light and shadow is lauded, however, and in this respect the work may have shown Monet where his artistic path lay.. 
Madonna della Vittoria. Author Name: Andrea Mantegna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Madonna della Vittoria is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Andrea Mantegna; the painting was executed in 1496.. The Madonna della Vittoria is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Andrea Mantegna; the painting was executed in 1496.. 
San Pietro Polyptych. Author Name: Pietro Perugino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The San Pietro Polyptych (Italian: Polittico di San Pietro) is a polyptych by Italian Renaissance master Perugino, painted around 1496–1500. The panel are now in different locations: the lunette and the central panel, depicting the Ascension of Christ, are in the Museum of Fine Arts of Lyon, France.. The San Pietro Polyptych (Italian: Polittico di San Pietro) is a polyptych by Italian Renaissance master Perugino, painted around 1496–1500. The panel are now in different locations: the lunette and the central panel, depicting the Ascension of Christ, are in the Museum of Fine Arts of Lyon, France.. 
The Inspiration of the Poet. Author Name: Nicolas Poussin. . Author Movement: Baroque. . The Inspiration of the Poet is an oil-on-canvas by artist in the classical style Nicolas Poussin, painted between 1629 and 1630. It is currently held and exhibited at the Louvre in Paris.. The Inspiration of the Poet is an oil-on-canvas by artist in the classical style Nicolas Poussin, painted between 1629 and 1630. It is currently held and exhibited at the Louvre in Paris.. 
Portrait of Countess Karoly. Author Name: Gustave Courbet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Portrait of Countess Karoly is an 1865 painting by French realist painter Gustave Courbet.. Portrait of Countess Karoly is an 1865 painting by French realist painter Gustave Courbet.. 
Barcelona Series. Author Name: Joan Miró. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . The Barcelona Series is a series of fifty black and white lithographs made by Joan Miró and published in 1944. They are currently in the permanent collection of the Miró Foundation in Barcelona.. The Barcelona Series is a series of fifty black and white lithographs made by Joan Miró and published in 1944. They are currently in the permanent collection of the Miró Foundation in Barcelona.. 
Portrait of Artist's Mother. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Portrait of Artist's Mother is an 1888 painting by Vincent van Gogh of his mother, Anna Carbentus van Gogh, drawn from a black-and-white photograph. Van Gogh's introduction to art was through his mother, herself an amateur artist. After years of strained relations with family members, Van Gogh excitedly shared some of his works he thought his mother would appreciate most, of flowers and natural settings. In this painting, Van Gogh captures his mother's dignified and proud nature.. Portrait of Artist's Mother is an 1888 painting by Vincent van Gogh of his mother, Anna Carbentus van Gogh, drawn from a black-and-white photograph. Van Gogh's introduction to art was through his mother, herself an amateur artist. After years of strained relations with family members, Van Gogh excitedly shared some of his works he thought his mother would appreciate most, of flowers and natural settings. In this painting, Van Gogh captures his mother's dignified and proud nature.. 
Self-Portrait with Bandaged Ear. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Self-Portrait with Bandaged Ear is a 1889 self-portrait by Dutch, Post-Impressionist artist Vincent van Gogh.. Self-Portrait with Bandaged Ear is a 1889 self-portrait by Dutch, Post-Impressionist artist Vincent van Gogh.. 
Tobias and the Angel. Author Name: Filippino Lippi. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Tobias and the Angel is a painting by the Florentine Renaissance painter Filippino Lippi, dating from c. 1475-1480. It is housed in the National Gallery of Art of Washington, DC.. Tobias and the Angel is a painting by the Florentine Renaissance painter Filippino Lippi, dating from c. 1475-1480. It is housed in the National Gallery of Art of Washington, DC.. 
Bliss. Author Name: Chuck O'Rear. . . Bliss is the name of the default computer wallpaper of Microsoft's Windows XP operating system. It is an image of a rolling green hill and a blue sky with cumulus and cirrus clouds. The landscape depicted is in the Los Carneros American Viticultural Area of Sonoma County, California, United States.. Bliss is the name of the default computer wallpaper of Microsoft's Windows XP operating system. It is an image of a rolling green hill and a blue sky with cumulus and cirrus clouds. The landscape depicted is in the Los Carneros American Viticultural Area of Sonoma County, California, United States.. 
At Binsey, near Oxford. Author Name: Boyce, George Price. . . At Binsey, near Oxford is a watercolour painting by the English Victorian artist George Price Boyce, who was associated with the Pre-Raphaelite art movement.This 1862 watercolour is a view in the village of Binsey close to the city of Oxford in Oxfordshire, England.. At Binsey, near Oxford is a watercolour painting by the English Victorian artist George Price Boyce, who was associated with the Pre-Raphaelite art movement. This 1862 watercolour is a view in the village of Binsey close to the city of Oxford in Oxfordshire, England.. 
Gather Ye Rosebuds While Ye May. Author Name: John William Waterhouse. . . Gather Ye Rosebuds While Ye May is an oil painting on canvas created in 1909 by British Pre-Raphaelite artist, John William Waterhouse. It was the second of two paintings inspired by the 17th century poem "To the Virgins, to Make Much of Time" by Robert Herrick which begins:The artwork was valued at $1.75-2.5 million by Sotheby's prior to auction in April 2007, although the painting went unsold.. Gather Ye Rosebuds While Ye May is an oil painting on canvas created in 1909 by British Pre-Raphaelite artist, John William Waterhouse. It was the second of two paintings inspired by the 17th century poem "To the Virgins, to Make Much of Time" by Robert Herrick which begins: The artwork was valued at $1.75-2.5 million by Sotheby's prior to auction in April 2007, although the painting went unsold.. 
Ex-Voto de 1662. Author Name: Philippe de Champaigne. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Ex-Voto de 1662 is a painting by the French artist Philippe de Champaigne held in Paris's Louvre. One of Champaigne's most accomplished works, it is a votive offering (an ex-voto) by the painter which depicts a miracle involving his daughter that is said to have occurred at the Port-Royal-des-Champs Cistercian convent.The painting includes a Latin inscription on the wall on the left of the painting. Neither the text nor the lettering were Champaigne's work.. Ex-Voto de 1662 is a painting by the French artist Philippe de Champaigne held in Paris's Louvre. One of Champaigne's most accomplished works, it is a votive offering (an ex-voto) by the painter which depicts a miracle involving his daughter that is said to have occurred at the Port-Royal-des-Champs Cistercian convent. A ray of light illuminates Mother-Superior Agnès Arnauld, who experienced on the ninth day of her novena for Champaigne's daughter, Sister Catherine de Sainte Suzanne, the hope that a cure would come for Sister Catherine. Catherine (seated, praying) was the painter's only surviving child, and had been suffering from a paralyzing illness. Until that point, prayer and medical treatments ("potions, baths, unctions, and thirty bleedings") had proven futile. After the Mother-Superior's novena, Sister Catherine soon attempted to walk, and found herself increasingly mobile; the illness no longer seemed present. The painting is a statement of gratitude by the father for the cure of his daughter. The miracle it portrays also symbolized hope for the cause of the Jansenists, who were subject to persecution by ecclesiastical and civil authorities. The Jansenists followed Cornelius Jansen, who reasserted the theology of St. Augustine, and were in conflict with the Jesuits. Their refusal to sign a document condemning five propositions found in Jansen's Augustinus resulted in their being deprived of the sacraments and confined to the abbey, which was eventually torn down. The composition is unique among Champaigne's work, with the two figures having richly defined, "sculptural" forms, lending them vitality and setting them off from the restricted hues and "angular simplicity" of the setting (Rand 1990). The figures dominate the canvas, giving the painting a monumental quality. The texture, weight, and folds of the robes are modeled in great detail, revealing Champaigne's Flemish training. His decision to portray the moment that Mother-Superior Agnès is instilled with hope, rather than the cure itself, is evident in the fact that the ray of light illuminates her instead of his daughter. The light develops a "chronological tension" that suggests "what will happen as a result of what is happening" (Rand 1983). The painting includes a Latin inscription on the wall on the left of the painting. Neither the text nor the lettering were Champaigne's work. The inscription, addressed to Christ, tells that Sister Catherine suffered for 14 months from a high fever and that half her body was paralyzed. She prayed with Mother Agnès and her health was restored, and again she offered herself to Christ.. 
Annunciation with St. Margaret and St. Ansanus. Author Name: Lippo Memmi. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/International_Gothic. . The Annunciation with St. Margaret and St. Ansanus is a painting by the Italian Gothic artists Simone Martini and Lippo Memmi, now housed in the Uffizi Gallery in Florence, Italy. It is a wooden triptych painted in tempera and gold, with a central panel having double size. Considered Martini's masterwork and one of the most outstanding works of Gothic painting, the work was originally painted for a side altar in the Siena Cathedral.. The Annunciation with St. Margaret and St. Ansanus is a painting by the Italian Gothic artists Simone Martini and Lippo Memmi, now housed in the Uffizi Gallery in Florence, Italy. It is a wooden triptych painted in tempera and gold, with a central panel having double size. Considered Martini's masterwork and one of the most outstanding works of Gothic painting, the work was originally painted for a side altar in the Siena Cathedral.. 
Burnside Fountain. Author Name: Henry Bacon. . . The Burnside Fountain is a non-functioning drinking fountain at the southeast corner of Worcester Common in Worcester, Massachusetts. It consists of two parts, a pink granite basin, and a bronze statue of a young boy riding a sea turtle. The basin was designed by architect Henry Bacon, who later designed the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, D.C., and the figure was created by sculptor Charles Y. Harvey. Harvey committed suicide before finishing the sculpture, and Sherry Fry completed the bronze. The Burnside Fountain was commissioned in 1905 by the city of Worcester after Harriet F. Burnside bequeathed US $5,000 to create a fountain to provide fresh water for people, horses and dogs, in the memory of her father, a prominent lawyer. The fountain was installed in 1912 in Central Square, then . The Burnside Fountain is a non-functioning drinking fountain at the southeast corner of Worcester Common in Worcester, Massachusetts. It consists of two parts, a pink granite basin, and a bronze statue of a young boy riding a sea turtle. The basin was designed by architect Henry Bacon, who later designed the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, D.C., and the figure was created by sculptor Charles Y. Harvey. Harvey committed suicide before finishing the sculpture, and Sherry Fry completed the bronze. The Burnside Fountain was commissioned in 1905 by the city of Worcester after Harriet F. Burnside bequeathed US $5,000 to create a fountain to provide fresh water for people, horses and dogs, in the memory of her father, a prominent lawyer. The fountain was installed in 1912 in Central Square, then moved in 1969 to its current location on Worcester Common. In 1970 the statue was stolen, and was re-installed two years later. An attempted theft occurred in 2004. The bronze is officially named Boy with a Turtle but is known to locals as Turtle Boy. Turtle Boy has become an unofficial mascot for Worcester, much in the same way the Manneken Pis is for Brussels. The Burnside Fountain's popularity is derived mostly from viewers' incorrect interpretation of the statue. Over its 100-year existence, it has been referenced in stories and songs, as well as having a music contest and a microbrew named after it.. 
Our English Coasts, 1852. Author Name: William Holman Hunt. . . Our English Coasts, also known as Strayed Sheep, is an oil-on-canvas painting by William Holman Hunt, completed in 1852. It has been held by the Tate Gallery since 1946, acquired through The Art Fund.. Our English Coasts, also known as Strayed Sheep, is an oil-on-canvas painting by William Holman Hunt, completed in 1852. It has been held by the Tate Gallery since 1946, acquired through The Art Fund.. 
Enthroned Madonna and Child with Saints. Author Name: Agnolo Gaddi. . . The Enthroned Madonna and Child with Saints is a triptych painting in tempera and gold leaf on panel (159x198 cm) by Agnolo Gaddi.It is dated 1375 and preserved in the Galleria nazionale di Parma.. The Enthroned Madonna and Child with Saints is a triptych painting in tempera and gold leaf on panel (159x198 cm) by Agnolo Gaddi. It is dated 1375 and preserved in the Galleria nazionale di Parma.. 
The Discovery of America By Christopher Columbus. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The Discovery of America by Christopher Columbus is the name of a painting by artist Salvador Dalí, begun in 1958 and finished in 1959. It is over 14 feet tall and over 9 feet wide (410 x 284 cm; 161.4 x 111.8 in), one in a series of large paintings Dalí did during this era.. The Discovery of America by Christopher Columbus is the name of a painting by artist Salvador Dalí, begun in 1958 and finished in 1959. It is over 14 feet tall and over 9 feet wide (410 x 284 cm; 161.4 x 111.8 in), one in a series of large paintings Dalí did during this era.. 
Madonna of the Rose. Author Name: Giulio Romano. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Madonna of the Rose (Madonna della rosa) is a 1518-1520 painting, now in the Museo del Prado in Madrid. Its attribution as by Raphael is uncertain, and the involvement of Giulio Romano cannot be excluded. The rose and the lower portion were added at a later date by an unknown artist. A second autograph version of this painting, without the added rose and lower strip, painted on wood panel, is owned by real estate magnate Luke Brugnara.. The Madonna of the Rose (Madonna della rosa) is a 1518-1520 painting, now in the Museo del Prado in Madrid. Its attribution as by Raphael is uncertain, and the involvement of Giulio Romano cannot be excluded. The rose and the lower portion were added at a later date by an unknown artist. A second autograph version of this painting, without the added rose and lower strip, painted on wood panel, is owned by real estate magnate Luke Brugnara.. 
The Garden of Pan. Author Name: Sir Edward Burne-Jones, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Aestheticism. . The Garden of Pan is a painting by the pre-Raphaelite artist Edward Burne-Jones which was completed around 1886 and is currently housed at the National Gallery of Victoria.. The Garden of Pan is a painting by the pre-Raphaelite artist Edward Burne-Jones which was completed around 1886 and is currently housed at the National Gallery of Victoria.. 
The Crossing of the Red Sea. Author Name: Nicolas Poussin. . Author Movement: Baroque. . The Crossing of the Red Sea is a painting by Nicolas Poussin, produced between 1633 and 1634. It depicts the crossing of the Red Sea by the Israelites, from chapter 14 of the book of Exodus. It was made as part of a pair of paintings (the other being The Adoration of the Golden Calf) commissioned by Amadeo dal Pozzo, Marchese di Voghera of Turin, a cousin to Cassiano dal Pozzo, Poussin's main sponsor in Rome. By 1685 the pair had passed to the Chevalier de Lorraine and in 1710 they were bought by Benigne de Ragois de Bretonvillers.. The Crossing of the Red Sea is a painting by Nicolas Poussin, produced between 1633 and 1634. It depicts the crossing of the Red Sea by the Israelites, from chapter 14 of the book of Exodus. It was made as part of a pair of paintings (the other being The Adoration of the Golden Calf) commissioned by Amadeo dal Pozzo, Marchese di Voghera of Turin, a cousin to Cassiano dal Pozzo, Poussin's main sponsor in Rome. By 1685 the pair had passed to the Chevalier de Lorraine and in 1710 they were bought by Benigne de Ragois de Bretonvillers. In 1741 the pair was bought from Samuel by Sir Jacob Bouverie, whose son William became the first Earl of Radnor. The Earls of Radnor owned the pair from then until 1945, when it was split for the first time and The Adoration of the Golden Calf was sold to the National Gallery in London. The Crossing of the Red Sea was acquired by Kenneth Clark for the National Gallery of Victoria in 1948 using money from the Felton Bequest, a fund originally left to the gallery in 1904 by the industrialist Alfred Felton. In 2011 it underwent a major conservation project.. 
Arch Falls. Author Name: Hunt, Bryan. . . Arch Falls is an outdoor 1981 bronze sculpture by American artist Bryan Hunt, installed at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston's Lillie and Hugh Roy Cullen Sculpture Garden, in the U.S. state of Texas. The sculpture rests on a limestone base. It was gifted by the Charles Engelhard Foundation.. Arch Falls is an outdoor 1981 bronze sculpture by American artist Bryan Hunt, installed at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston's Lillie and Hugh Roy Cullen Sculpture Garden, in the U.S. state of Texas. The sculpture rests on a limestone base. It was gifted by the Charles Engelhard Foundation.. 
The Meaning of Night. Author Name: René Magritte. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Surrealism. . The Meaning of Night is a painting by the Belgian Surrealist René Magritte. Painted in 1927, it is an oil painting on canvas with dimensions 139 cm by 105 cm and is in the Menil Collection, Houston.. The Meaning of Night is a painting by the Belgian Surrealist René Magritte. Painted in 1927, it is an oil painting on canvas with dimensions 139 cm by 105 cm and is in the Menil Collection, Houston.. 
The Two Sisters. Author Name: Georges Lemmen. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Modern_art. . The Two Sisters, also known as The Serruys Sisters is an 1894 oil painting by Belgian artist Georges Lemmen, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It uses pointillism to depict the sisters Jenny and Berthe Serruys.. The Two Sisters, also known as The Serruys Sisters is an 1894 oil painting by Belgian artist Georges Lemmen, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It uses pointillism to depict the sisters Jenny and Berthe Serruys.. 
Lost Illusions. Author Name: Charles Gleyre. . . Lost Illusions is a painting by Charles Gleyre and his student Leon Dussart, commissioned by William Thompson Walters in 1865.. Lost Illusions is a painting by Charles Gleyre and his student Leon Dussart, commissioned by William Thompson Walters in 1865.. 
Juneau Monument. Author Name: Park, Richard Henry. . . The Juneau Monument is a public artwork by American artist Richard Henry Park located on the grounds of Juneau Park, which is in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The base of the statue is made of limestone. On top of the base is a bronze statue of Solomon Juneau. On each side of the base are bronze reliefs. The statue is 5 feet wide by 15 feet high.. The Juneau Monument is a public artwork by American artist Richard Henry Park located on the grounds of Juneau Park, which is in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The base of the statue is made of limestone. On top of the base is a bronze statue of Solomon Juneau. On each side of the base are bronze reliefs. The statue is 5 feet wide by 15 feet high.. 
Young Abe Lincoln. Author Name: David K. Rubins. . . Young Abe Lincoln, is a public artwork by American artist David K. Rubins (born 1902 in Minneapolis), located outside of the government center near the Indiana State House, in Indianapolis, Indiana, US. This bronze sculpture is a depiction of a young Abraham Lincoln, an Abraham Lincoln that spent the majority of his formative years in Indiana.. Young Abe Lincoln, is a public artwork by American artist David K. Rubins (born 1902 in Minneapolis), located outside of the government center near the Indiana State House, in Indianapolis, Indiana, US. This bronze sculpture is a depiction of a young Abraham Lincoln, an Abraham Lincoln that spent the majority of his formative years in Indiana.. 
The Bridge at Narni. Author Name: Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Bridge at Narni (in French: Le pont de Narni) is an 1826 painting of the Ponte d'Augusto at Narni by French artist Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot. The painting is currently on display at the Musée du Louvre in Paris.The painting is a product of one of Corot's youthful sojourns in Italy, and, in Kenneth Clark's words, "as free as the most vigorous Constable". It was painted in September 1826, and was the basis for the larger and more finished View at Narni, which was exhibited at the Salon of 1827, and is now in the National Gallery of Canada, Ottawa.. The Bridge at Narni (in French: Le pont de Narni) is an 1826 painting of the Ponte d'Augusto at Narni by French artist Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot. The painting is currently on display at the Musée du Louvre in Paris. The painting is a product of one of Corot's youthful sojourns in Italy, and, in Kenneth Clark's words, "as free as the most vigorous Constable". It was painted in September 1826, and was the basis for the larger and more finished View at Narni, which was exhibited at the Salon of 1827, and is now in the National Gallery of Canada, Ottawa. The view was not a novel one: in 1821 Corot's teacher, Achille-Etna Michallon had drawn the same scene, as had Corot's friend Ernst Fries in 1826. Corot's study is a reconciliation of traditional and plein air painting objectives: So deeply did Corot admire Claude and Poussin, so fully did he understand their work, that from the outset he viewed nature in their terms....In less than a year (since his arrival in Rome) he had realized his goal of closing the gap between the empirical freshness of outdoor painting and the organizing principles of classical landscape composition.. 
The Judgment of Solomon. Author Name: Giorgione. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Judgment of Solomon is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giorgione (1500–1501). It is housed in the Galleria degli Uffizi of Florence.The work is dimensionally and thematically similar to its Pendant painting Test of Fire of Moses, also in the Uffizi. It shows Solomon, King of the Jews, on the throne, with the court dignitaries and two women at his feet. The two women were both claiming the same child and had appealed to the King. Solomon's choice unmasked the faking one. Behind them are two large oaks which divide the landscape into two parts.. The Judgment of Solomon is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giorgione (1500–1501). It is housed in the Galleria degli Uffizi of Florence. The work is dimensionally and thematically similar to its Pendant painting Test of Fire of Moses, also in the Uffizi. It shows Solomon, King of the Jews, on the throne, with the court dignitaries and two women at his feet. The two women were both claiming the same child and had appealed to the King. Solomon's choice unmasked the faking one. Behind them are two large oaks which divide the landscape into two parts. A Ferrarese assistant collaborated with Giorgione in the realization of the figures.. 
The Black Stream. Author Name: Gustave Courbet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Le ruisseau noir (The Black Stream) (also known in En. as Stream in a Ravine) is an oil-on-canvas landscape painted by French artist, Gustave Courbet, in 1865. It is currently held and exhibited at the Musée d'Orsay in Paris.. Le ruisseau noir (The Black Stream) (also known in En. as Stream in a Ravine) is an oil-on-canvas landscape painted by French artist, Gustave Courbet, in 1865. It is currently held and exhibited at the Musée d'Orsay in Paris.. 
Prešeren Monument. Author Name: Max Fabiani. . . The Prešeren Monument in Ljubljana (Slovene: Prešernov spomenik), also Prešeren Statue in Ljubljana, is a late Historicist bronze statue of the Slovene national poet France Prešeren in Ljubljana, the capital of Slovenia. It stands in the eastern side of Prešeren Square, in front of the Central Pharmacy Building in Ljubljana, the capital of Slovenia. It is among the best-known Slovenian monuments.. The Prešeren Monument in Ljubljana (Slovene: Prešernov spomenik), also Prešeren Statue in Ljubljana, is a late Historicist bronze statue of the Slovene national poet France Prešeren in Ljubljana, the capital of Slovenia. It stands in the eastern side of Prešeren Square, in front of the Central Pharmacy Building in Ljubljana, the capital of Slovenia. It is among the best-known Slovenian monuments.. 
Christmastide Divination. Author Name: Konstantin Makovsky. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Academic_art. . Christmastide Divination (Russian: "Святочное гадание") is a painting by Russian artist Konstantin Makovsky from around 1905. The painting shows a moonlit Russian folk divination during Eastern Orthodox Christmastide (svyatki) in a rural log house (izba). Five out of seven depicted women gathered around a rooster pecking the grain, the alectryomancy which foretells a marriage in the near future. The girls count the grains pecked by the rooster, watching if he did not peck more than twelve. If the number of remaining grains would be even, then the marriage will happen soon, and if odd, then it will be in the next year. A sleeping elder woman is depicted sitting on a bench to the left. The upper left part of the painting shows a candlelit icon corner.. Christmastide Divination (Russian: "Святочное гадание") is a painting by Russian artist Konstantin Makovsky from around 1905. The painting shows a moonlit Russian folk divination during Eastern Orthodox Christmastide (svyatki) in a rural log house (izba). Five out of seven depicted women gathered around a rooster pecking the grain, the alectryomancy which foretells a marriage in the near future. The girls count the grains pecked by the rooster, watching if he did not peck more than twelve. If the number of remaining grains would be even, then the marriage will happen soon, and if odd, then it will be in the next year. A sleeping elder woman is depicted sitting on a bench to the left. The upper left part of the painting shows a candlelit icon corner.. 
Belle Austin Jacobs Memorial. Author Name: Judson, Sylvia Shaw. . . Memorial for Belle Austin Jacobs is a public artwork by American artist Sylvia Shaw Judson (sculptor) and Alexander C. Eschweiler (architect), formerly located in Kosciuszko Park, Lincoln Village, City of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States. The statue depicted a young woman kneeling to feed a squirrel. It celebrated the life and philanthropy of Belle Austin Jacobs, who was best known for her work, with her husband Herbert Henry Jacobs, as the founders of organized social work in Wisconsin, including the establishment of the University Settlement House.. Memorial for Belle Austin Jacobs is a public artwork by American artist Sylvia Shaw Judson (sculptor) and Alexander C. Eschweiler (architect), formerly located in Kosciuszko Park, Lincoln Village, City of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States. The statue depicted a young woman kneeling to feed a squirrel. It celebrated the life and philanthropy of Belle Austin Jacobs, who was best known for her work, with her husband Herbert Henry Jacobs, as the founders of organized social work in Wisconsin, including the establishment of the University Settlement House.. 
Martyrdom of the Ten Thousand. Author Name: Albrecht Dürer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Martyrdom of the Ten Thousand is an oil painting by Albrecht Dürer, dating to 1508 and now at the Kunsthistorisches Museum of Vienna, Austria. It is signed on a cartouche which hangs from the artist's self-portrait in the center, saying Iste fatiebat Ano Domini 1508 Albertus Dürer Aleman.. The Martyrdom of the Ten Thousand is an oil painting by Albrecht Dürer, dating to 1508 and now at the Kunsthistorisches Museum of Vienna, Austria. It is signed on a cartouche which hangs from the artist's self-portrait in the center, saying Iste fatiebat Ano Domini 1508 Albertus Dürer Aleman.. 
Double Up. Author Name: Clement Meadmore. . . Double Up is a public art work by Australian-American artist Clement Meadmore located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture is an abstract, twisting form made of weathering steel; it is installed on the lawn.. Double Up is a public art work by Australian-American artist Clement Meadmore located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture is an abstract, twisting form made of weathering steel; it is installed on the lawn.. 
Morning Yawn. Author Name: Edvard Munch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Expressionism. . Morning Yawn is a painting by Edvard Munch.. Morning Yawn is a painting by Edvard Munch.. 
The Death of Nelson. Author Name: Daniel Maclise. . . The Death of Nelson is a wall painting in the Royal Gallery of the Palace of Westminster by the Irish artist Daniel Maclise. A finished study for it, in the form of a painting, is in the Walker Art Gallery in Liverpool, Merseyside.. The Death of Nelson is a wall painting in the Royal Gallery of the Palace of Westminster by the Irish artist Daniel Maclise. A finished study for it, in the form of a painting, is in the Walker Art Gallery in Liverpool, Merseyside.. 
Decemviri Altarpiece. Author Name: Pietro Perugino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Decemviri Altarpiece (Italian: Pala dei Decemviri) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Pietro Perugino, executed in 1495-1496, and housed in the Pinacoteca Vaticana in Rome.The work was commissioned by the Decemviri ("Ten Men") of Perugia for the chapel in the Palazzo dei Priori, and was executed 1495 to 1496. It was originally surmounted by a Pietà (87 x 90 cm), now at the Galleria Nazionale dell'Umbria.. Decemviri Altarpiece (Italian: Pala dei Decemviri) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Pietro Perugino, executed in 1495-1496, and housed in the Pinacoteca Vaticana in Rome. The work was commissioned by the Decemviri ("Ten Men") of Perugia for the chapel in the Palazzo dei Priori, and was executed 1495 to 1496. It was originally surmounted by a Pietà (87 x 90 cm), now at the Galleria Nazionale dell'Umbria.. 
Equestrian Portrait of Prince Balthasar Charles. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Equestrian Portrait of Prince Balthasar Charles is a 1635 equestrian portrait of Balthasar Charles, Prince of Asturias by Diego Velázquez. It is now in the Prado.Velázquez had been commissioned to paint a series of equestrian portraits meant for the Salón de Reinos at the palacio del Buen Retiro in Madrid, with this work meant to fill the gap between the two larger equestrian portraits of the series were those of Balthasar and Philip IV.According to art historian Andrew Graham Dixon: " little boy on this plump horse, underneath a lowering sky full of dark clouds. The child looks lost.". The Equestrian Portrait of Prince Balthasar Charles is a 1635 equestrian portrait of Balthasar Charles, Prince of Asturias by Diego Velázquez. It is now in the Prado. Velázquez had been commissioned to paint a series of equestrian portraits meant for the Salón de Reinos at the palacio del Buen Retiro in Madrid, with this work meant to fill the gap between the two larger equestrian portraits of the series were those of Balthasar and Philip IV. According to art historian Andrew Graham Dixon: " little boy on this plump horse, underneath a lowering sky full of dark clouds. The child looks lost.". 
The Knifegrinder Principle of Glittering. Author Name: Kazimir Malevich. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Suprematism. . The Knifegrinder Principle of Glittering (Russian: Точильщик, Tochil'schik Printsip Mel'kaniia), or sometimes shortened to The Knifegrinder, is a 1912-13 cubo-futurist painting by Russian artist Kazimir Malevich. It contains both the fragmententation of form associated with futurism as well as abstract geometry related to cubism. As of 2014 it is owned by Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut.. The Knifegrinder Principle of Glittering (Russian: Точильщик, Tochil'schik Printsip Mel'kaniia), or sometimes shortened to The Knifegrinder, is a 1912-13 cubo-futurist painting by Russian artist Kazimir Malevich. It contains both the fragmententation of form associated with futurism as well as abstract geometry related to cubism. As of 2014 it is owned by Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut.. 
Shepherd with a Flute. Author Name: Giorgione. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Shepherd with a flute is a painting produced around 1508 by Giorgione, now in the Royal Collection and shown at Hampton Court Palace.. Shepherd with a flute is a painting produced around 1508 by Giorgione, now in the Royal Collection and shown at Hampton Court Palace.. 
Portrait of a  Collector. Author Name: Parmigianino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . Portrait of a Collector is a painting by the Italian Mannerist artist Parmigianino, executed around 1524.. Portrait of a Collector is a painting by the Italian Mannerist artist Parmigianino, executed around 1524.. 
Sala delle Asse. Author Name: Leonardo da Vinci. . . The Sala delle Asse (In English: 'room of the tower' or 'room of the wooden boards'), is the location for a wall and ceiling painting in tempera on plaster, of decorated "intertwining plants with fruits and monochromes of roots and rocks", by Leonardo da Vinci, dating from about 1498 and located in the Castello Sforzesco in Milan.. The Sala delle Asse (In English: 'room of the tower' or 'room of the wooden boards'), is the location for a wall and ceiling painting in tempera on plaster, of decorated "intertwining plants with fruits and monochromes of roots and rocks", by Leonardo da Vinci, dating from about 1498 and located in the Castello Sforzesco in Milan.. 
Put Down Your Whip. Author Name: Xu Beihong. . . Put Down Your Whip (Chinese: 放下你的鞭子; pinyin: Fàngxià nǐde biānzi) is a 1939 oil painting by Chinese Realism painter Xu Beihong. Completed during Xu's stay in Singapore, the painting was exhibited numerous times before its disappearance from public view in 1954. It re-emerged in 2007 and was sold for HK$72 million (US$9.2 million) in an auction on 7 April 2007 in Hong Kong, then setting a record for the highest price ever paid for a Chinese painting at an auction.. Put Down Your Whip (Chinese: 放下你的鞭子; pinyin: Fàngxià nǐde biānzi) is a 1939 oil painting by Chinese Realism painter Xu Beihong. Completed during Xu's stay in Singapore, the painting was exhibited numerous times before its disappearance from public view in 1954. It re-emerged in 2007 and was sold for HK$72 million (US$9.2 million) in an auction on 7 April 2007 in Hong Kong, then setting a record for the highest price ever paid for a Chinese painting at an auction.. 
El bufón Barbarroja. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Jester Barbarroja (El bufón Barbarroja) is an oil on canvas portrait by Diego Velázquez of Cristóbal de Castañeda y Pernia, nicknamed Barbarroja in his role as a jester at the court of Philip IV of Spain from 1633 to 1649. The painting is now in the Museo del Prado. It was in the Palacio del Buen Retiro in Madrid in 1701 and from 1816 to 1827 it was in the Real Academia de Bellas Artes de San Fernando.. The Jester Barbarroja (El bufón Barbarroja) is an oil on canvas portrait by Diego Velázquez of Cristóbal de Castañeda y Pernia, nicknamed Barbarroja in his role as a jester at the court of Philip IV of Spain from 1633 to 1649. The painting is now in the Museo del Prado. It was in the Palacio del Buen Retiro in Madrid in 1701 and from 1816 to 1827 it was in the Real Academia de Bellas Artes de San Fernando. The composition's subject also served Cardinal-Infante Ferdinand of Austria, for whom he played Barbarroja (Barbarossa) in comic plays. He was later banished from the court, to Seville, by the Duke of Olivares for a reply he gave the king when asked whether there were olives in the Segovian town of Valsaín - to this, the jester punningly replied "Sir, neither olives nor Olivares".. 
Cristo yacente  of El Pardo. Author Name: Fernandez, Gregorio. . . The Cristo Yacente (Dead Christ) of El Pardo, is a life-size polychromed sculpture by Spanish sculptor Gregorio Fernández, executed between 1614 and 1615. Housed in a chapel of the Capuchin Monastery of El Pardo (Madrid), the sculpture was commissioned by King Philip III to celebrate the birth of his son Philip IV.The Cristo yacente of El Pardo is the most famous of the fourteen "Cristos" produced by Fernández and his workshop.. The Cristo Yacente (Dead Christ) of El Pardo, is a life-size polychromed sculpture by Spanish sculptor Gregorio Fernández, executed between 1614 and 1615. Housed in a chapel of the Capuchin Monastery of El Pardo (Madrid), the sculpture was commissioned by King Philip III to celebrate the birth of his son Philip IV. The Cristo yacente of El Pardo is the most famous of the fourteen "Cristos" produced by Fernández and his workshop. As devotional images, many of them were processed during Holy Week with other “pasos” (elaborate religious floats adorned with sculptures depicting scenes from the Passion of Christ). All these images were created in accordance with Counter-Reformation ideology that required realism in religious images to impress and move the believer.. 
Danaë. Author Name: Antonio da Correggio. . Author Movement: Mannerism. . Danaë is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Correggio, executed around 1531 and housed in the Galleria Borghese in Rome.. Danaë is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Correggio, executed around 1531 and housed in the Galleria Borghese in Rome.. 
Cubi VII. Author Name: David Smith. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . Cubi VII is a sculpture by David Smith in the Art Institute of Chicago North Stanley McCormick Memorial Court (aka North Garden) north of the Art Institute of Chicago Building in the Loop community area of Chicago, Illinois.It is a stainless steel work of art created in 1963. This is part of a Roman numeral series of stainless steel works housed around the world.. Cubi VII is a sculpture by David Smith in the Art Institute of Chicago North Stanley McCormick Memorial Court (aka North Garden) north of the Art Institute of Chicago Building in the Loop community area of Chicago, Illinois. It is a stainless steel work of art created in 1963. This is part of a Roman numeral series of stainless steel works housed around the world.. 
Assumption of the Virgin. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Assumption of the Virgin Mary or Assumption of the Holy Virgin, is a painting by Peter Paul Rubens, completed in 1626 as an altarpiece for the high altar of the Cathedral of Our Lady, Antwerp, where it remains.The Antwerp Cathedral of Our Lady opened a competition for an Assumption altar in 1611. Rubens submitted models to the clergy on February 16, 1618. In September 1626, 15 years later, he completed the piece.There is a smaller studio version, with some differences, in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C.. The Assumption of the Virgin Mary or Assumption of the Holy Virgin, is a painting by Peter Paul Rubens, completed in 1626 as an altarpiece for the high altar of the Cathedral of Our Lady, Antwerp, where it remains. In Rubens' depiction of the Assumption of Mary, a choir of angels lifts her in a spiraling motion toward a burst of divine light. Around her tomb are gathered the 12 apostles — some with their arms raised in awe; others reaching to touch her discarded shroud. The women in the painting are thought to be Mary Magdalene and the Virgin Mary's two sisters. A kneeling woman holds a flower, referring to the lilies that miraculously filled the empty coffin. The Antwerp Cathedral of Our Lady opened a competition for an Assumption altar in 1611. Rubens submitted models to the clergy on February 16, 1618. In September 1626, 15 years later, he completed the piece. There is a smaller studio version, with some differences, in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C. Another version hangs on the right side altar of the castle church St. Peter and Paul in Kirchheim in Schwaben, Germany.. 
Entry of Christ into Jerusalem. Author Name: Anthony van Dyck. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Entry of Christ into Jerusalem is a 1617 oil painting by Flemish artist Anthony van Dyck, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It depicts Jesus entering Jerusalem as described in the Gospels, the event celebrated on Palm Sunday.. Entry of Christ into Jerusalem is a 1617 oil painting by Flemish artist Anthony van Dyck, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It depicts Jesus entering Jerusalem as described in the Gospels, the event celebrated on Palm Sunday.. 
St. Peter Consecrates St. Laurence as Deacon. Author Name: Blessed John of Fiesole, O.P.. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Niccoline Chapel (Italian: Cappella Niccolina) is a chapel in the Apostolic Palace in Vatican City. It is especially notable for its fresco paintings by Fra Angelico (1447–1451) and his assistants, who may have executed much of the actual work. The name is derived from its patron, Pope Nicholas V, who had it built for use as his private chapel.Fra Angelico depicted a Deposition of Christ (the removal of Christ from the Cross) on the wall behind the altar, but it has been destroyed. However, his other works in the lunettes are well preserved.. The Niccoline Chapel (Italian: Cappella Niccolina) is a chapel in the Apostolic Palace in Vatican City. It is especially notable for its fresco paintings by Fra Angelico (1447–1451) and his assistants, who may have executed much of the actual work. The name is derived from its patron, Pope Nicholas V, who had it built for use as his private chapel. The chapel is located in the Tower of Innocent III, in the most ancient part of the Apostolic Palace. The walls were decorated by Fra Angelico with images of two of the earliest Christian martyrs; the upper level has Episodes from the Life of St. Stephen, and the lower one Scenes from the life of St. Laurence. The vault is painted blue, decorated with stars, and features figures of the Four Evangelists in the corners. The pilasters are decorated with the eight Doctors of the Church. Fra Angelico depicted a Deposition of Christ (the removal of Christ from the Cross) on the wall behind the altar, but it has been destroyed. However, his other works in the lunettes are well preserved. The scenes of St. Stephen follow the Golden Legend, while those of St. Laurence are patterned after the older cycles in the basilica of San Lorenzo fuori le Mura, where he is buried. Stephen was a Greek-speaking Jew, one of the first deacons named in Jerusalem by St. Peter – Ordination of St Stephen with St Stephen distributing Alms (lunette). His prayers (The Prayer of St. Stephen) earned him the hostility of his opponents in the city, who eventually stoned him to death in front of the city gate. Laurence was a deacon (Ordination of St Laurence) to whom Pope Sixtus II had entrusted the Church's treasure in order to give it to the Roman emperor Valerian (St. Lawrence Receiving the Treasures of the Church). Lawrence instead divided it among the poor (St Laurence distributing Alms), an act for which he was martyred. The frescoes underline the similarities in the lives of the two figures: both were ordained deacons, both gave alms to the poor and both were martyred after a courageous declaration of faith. The choice of the two saints also shows the connection between the Churches of Jerusalem and the Rome. The frescoes, full of fine architectural details, allude also to Nicholas V's desire to rebuild Rome as the new capital city of Christianity. The large walls in the Martyrdom of St. Stephen hint at the rebuilding of Rome's walls. Further, the schism in the Jewish community in Jerusalem can be compared to the Christian schism witnessed by Nicholas (who is portrayed in the frescoes as Pope Sixtus II).. 
The Listening Room. Author Name: René Magritte. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Surrealism. . The Listening Room (La Chambre d'Écoute, 1952) is an oil on canvas painting by the Belgian surrealist René Magritte which is currently part of the Menil Collection in Houston, Texas. A later version of the painting (also of the same name) was made in 1958 and is held in a private collection.Both paintings feature identical (or near-identical) green apples, but place them in different rooms. In the 1952 version, the room has wood flooring and a glass window with white trim. In the 1958 version, this is replaced by a gray brick room with an arched open-air window.. The Listening Room (La Chambre d'Écoute, 1952) is an oil on canvas painting by the Belgian surrealist René Magritte which is currently part of the Menil Collection in Houston, Texas. A later version of the painting (also of the same name) was made in 1958 and is held in a private collection. Both paintings feature identical (or near-identical) green apples, but place them in different rooms. In the 1952 version, the room has wood flooring and a glass window with white trim. In the 1958 version, this is replaced by a gray brick room with an arched open-air window. The painting highlights a number of themes common in Magritte's work. Other paintings to prominently feature an apple include The Son of Man (1964), where the apple obscures the face of bowler-hatted man, and This is not an Apple (1964), where an apple is accompanied by the caption "Ceci n'est pas une pomme" ("This is not an apple"). It is also one of many paintings to play with the concept of scale by juxtaposing objects normally of different sizes. In Elective Affinities (1933) an egg is pictured filling a birdcage, in The Tomb of the Wrestlers (1961) a red rose fills a room and in Personal Values (1951–52) common household objects such as a comb, a glass and a bar of soap dwarf the usual furniture in a bedroom. The 1958 reproduction of the painting was used for the album cover of Beck-Ola by The Jeff Beck Group.. 
The Honeysuckle Bower. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Honeysuckle Bower (ca. 1609) is a self-portrait of the Flemish Baroque painter Peter Paul Rubens and his first wife Isabella Brant. They wed on 3 October 1609, in St. Michael's Abbey, Antwerp, shortly after he had returned to the city after eight years in Italy.. The Honeysuckle Bower (ca. 1609) is a self-portrait of the Flemish Baroque painter Peter Paul Rubens and his first wife Isabella Brant. They wed on 3 October 1609, in St. Michael's Abbey, Antwerp, shortly after he had returned to the city after eight years in Italy. The painting is a full-length double portrait of the couple seated in a bower of honeysuckle. They are surrounded by love and marriage symbolism: the honeysuckle and garden are both traditional symbols of love, and the holding of right hands (junctio dextrarum) represents union through marriage. Additionally, Rubens depicts himself as an aristocratic gentleman with his left hand on the hilt of his sword.. 
Grande tête mince. Author Name: Alberto Giacometti. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Grande tête mince is a bronze sculpture by Alberto Giacometti. The work was conceived in 1954 and cast the following year. Auctioned in 2010, Grande tête mince became one of the most valuable sculptures ever sold when it fetched $53.3 million.. Grande tête mince is a bronze sculpture by Alberto Giacometti. The work was conceived in 1954 and cast the following year. Auctioned in 2010, Grande tête mince became one of the most valuable sculptures ever sold when it fetched $53.3 million.. 
The Wheat Sifters. Author Name: Gustave Courbet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Wheat Sifters (Les Cribleuses de Blé) is an 1854 painting by Gustave Courbet.It was exhibited at the Salon of 1855 in Paris, then in 1861 at the ninth exhibition of the Society of Friends of the Art of Nantes, which then bought the painting for the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Nantes.Both young women are probably the two sisters of Courbet: Zoe (in the center) and Juliet (seated). The boy could be Désiré Binet, the illegitimate son of the painter.. The Wheat Sifters (Les Cribleuses de Blé) is an 1854 painting by Gustave Courbet. It was exhibited at the Salon of 1855 in Paris, then in 1861 at the ninth exhibition of the Society of Friends of the Art of Nantes, which then bought the painting for the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Nantes. Both young women are probably the two sisters of Courbet: Zoe (in the center) and Juliet (seated). The boy could be Désiré Binet, the illegitimate son of the painter.. 
The Love Song. Author Name: Norman Rockwell. . . The Love Song is an oil painting by American artist Norman Rockwell, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States of America. It originally appeared in the Ladies Home Journal in December 1926. It depicts two elderly musicians, on flute and clarinet, playing a duet while a young girl takes a break from sweeping to listen. The painting's title appears on the sheet music from which the musicians play.. The Love Song is an oil painting by American artist Norman Rockwell, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States of America. It originally appeared in the Ladies Home Journal in December 1926. It depicts two elderly musicians, on flute and clarinet, playing a duet while a young girl takes a break from sweeping to listen. The painting's title appears on the sheet music from which the musicians play.. 
Madame Clémentine Valensi Stora. Author Name: Pierre-Auguste Renoir. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Madame Clémentine Valensi Stora (L'Algérienne) is an oil painting by Pierre-Auguste Renoir, completed in 1870. It depicts a young Jewish woman, Rebecca Clémentine Stora, in Algerian costume and is untypical of Renoir's work, leading to debate about the place of the painting within his oeuvre. Renoir and Stora both later repudiated the work.. Madame Clémentine Valensi Stora (L'Algérienne) is an oil painting by Pierre-Auguste Renoir, completed in 1870. It depicts a young Jewish woman, Rebecca Clémentine Stora, in Algerian costume and is untypical of Renoir's work, leading to debate about the place of the painting within his oeuvre. Renoir and Stora both later repudiated the work.. 
The Worship of Venus. Author Name: Titian. . . The Worship of Venus is an oil on canvas painting by the Italian artist Titian completed between 1518–1519, housed at the Museo del Prado in Madrid, Spain. It describes a Roman rite of worship conducted in honour of the goddess Venus each 1 April. On this occasion, women would make offerings to representations of the goddess so as to cleanse "every blemish on their bodies".. The Worship of Venus is an oil on canvas painting by the Italian artist Titian completed between 1518–1519, housed at the Museo del Prado in Madrid, Spain. It describes a Roman rite of worship conducted in honour of the goddess Venus each 1 April. On this occasion, women would make offerings to representations of the goddess so as to cleanse "every blemish on their bodies". In Titian's work, two nymphs, one young and one matronly, are situated to the right of the ceremony, attending to a shrine holding a representation of Venus. The shrine is surrounded by votive tablets. The older woman checks on the decorations with the use of a mirror which she holds high in her extended right hand. The foreground of the canvas is thronged with a swarm of male infants, or putti, who distract themselves in activities such as climbing trees, leaping, flying, gathering apples, lying around, fighting, fondling, shooting arrows and pulling each other's hair. A dam is shown in the middle background, near a sunlit meadow. The far distance is decorated with a mountain and blue sky. Titian based the image on the writings of the Greek sophist Philostratus. In his "Imagines I, VI", Philostratus wrote, "See cupids are gathering apples: and if there are many of them, do not be surprised...The cupids' quiver are studded with gold, and golden also are the darts in them...they have hung their quivers on the apple trees; and in the grass lie their broidered mantles...Ah, the baskets into which they gather their apples!". 
Joan of Arc. Author Name: Emmanuel Frémiet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Animalier. . Joan of Arc, also known as Joan of Arc, Maiden of Orleans, is an outdoor copy of Emmanuel Frémiet's equestrian statue Jeanne d'Arc (1874), installed in Portland, Oregon's Laurelhurst neighborhood, in the United States. The bronze sculpture, which depicts Joan of Arc, was donated to the city by Henry Waldo Coe, who saw Frémiet's original statue in Paris. Portland's copy arrived from France in 1924 and was dedicated on Memorial Day in 2015 in honor of the Doughboys of World War I.. Joan of Arc, also known as Joan of Arc, Maiden of Orleans, is an outdoor copy of Emmanuel Frémiet's equestrian statue Jeanne d'Arc (1874), installed in Portland, Oregon's Laurelhurst neighborhood, in the United States. The bronze sculpture, which depicts Joan of Arc, was donated to the city by Henry Waldo Coe, who saw Frémiet's original statue in Paris. Portland's copy arrived from France in 1924 and was dedicated on Memorial Day in 2015 in honor of the Doughboys of World War I.. 
Venus and Adonis. Author Name: Paolo Veronese. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . Venus and Adonis is a painting by the Italian late Mannerist artist Paolo Veronese, executed in 1580, now in the Museo del Prado in Madrid.The original painting was enlarged in the upper border in the 18th century. This added section was removed in a restoration (c. 1988) so the work recovered the horizontal format.. Venus and Adonis is a painting by the Italian late Mannerist artist Paolo Veronese, executed in 1580, now in the Museo del Prado in Madrid. The original painting was enlarged in the upper border in the 18th century. This added section was removed in a restoration (c. 1988) so the work recovered the horizontal format.. 
Two Watermills and an Open Sluice near Singraven. Author Name: Jacob van Ruisdael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_Golden_Age_painting. . Two Watermills and an Open Sluice near Singraven (c. 1650) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch landscape painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the National Gallery.Signed in full ; canvas, 34 inches by 43 1/2 inches. Sale. Thomas Emmerson, London, 1832 (504). In the collection of Wynn Ellis, 1854 (Waagen, ii. 297); bequeathed in 1876 to the National Gallery. In the National Gallery, London, Wynn Ellis bequest, 1906 catalogue, No. 986.". Two Watermills and an Open Sluice near Singraven (c. 1650) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch landscape painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the National Gallery. This painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1911, who wrote; "148. THE WATER-MILLS. Sm. 17. In the left centre are two water-mills on either side of a stream flowing to the right front. The mill to the left is partly cut off by the frame and hidden by an oak tree. Between the mills are three water-wheels, two on the left and one on the right, with an open sluice-gate in the centre, through which the stream rushes down. A man stands on the footbridge above raising the gate. Behind the mill on the right is a tree. Beyond the sluice on the right bank is another house. On the left bank in front are reeds. In the right foreground is a tree-trunk in the water, with plants on the bank. A flight of steps goes up the right bank to a path up a hill, on the top of which, in the right distance, are a village church and a wind-mill amid trees. Cloudy sky. The same mills, seen from a nearer standpoint, but without the landscape on the right and with the right-hand mill in ruins, are represented in 157. Signed in full ; canvas, 34 inches by 43 1/2 inches. Sale. Thomas Emmerson, London, 1832 (504). In the collection of Wynn Ellis, 1854 (Waagen, ii. 297); bequeathed in 1876 to the National Gallery. In the National Gallery, London, Wynn Ellis bequest, 1906 catalogue, No. 986." This scene is very similar to other paintings Ruisdael made in this period of watermills and these often served as inspiration for later painters of landscape. This location has been determined to be Singraven, part of Dinkelland near Ootmarsum, subject of meer paintings by Ruisdael.. 
Morphological Echo. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Morphological Echo is a title shared by two oil on panel paintings created by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dalí.The first of these works was painted between 1934 and 1936 and measures 64 cm × 54 cm (25 in × 21 in). It depicts a seemingly minimal architectural setting with several surrealist images in its finer details. In the distance is a wall housing a bell resembling the figure of a woman in bundled skirts. In the distance towards the center is a strangely eroded rock form.. Morphological Echo is a title shared by two oil on panel paintings created by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dalí. The first of these works was painted between 1934 and 1936 and measures 64 cm × 54 cm (25 in × 21 in). It depicts a seemingly minimal architectural setting with several surrealist images in its finer details. In the distance is a wall housing a bell resembling the figure of a woman in bundled skirts. In the distance towards the center is a strangely eroded rock form. The most significant element of this image is a small figure in the lower right of a woman running with a large hoop. In the shadow cast by the figure, her arms appear to merge into a circle around her head. The shadow cast by the figures head takes on the appearance of the hub of a wheel. This painting is displayed at the Salvador Dalí Museum in St. Petersburg, Florida on loan from the E. and A. Reynolds Morse collection. The second work by this title was painted in 1936 and measures 12 x 13”. It depicts a table with three objects set upon it. In the distance beyond the table are six more objects in two horizontal rows of three. These objects roughly resemble the three shapes they are aligned with on the table. This painting is owned by the Salvador Dalí Museum.. 
The Physical Impossibility of Death. Author Name: Damien Hirst. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Young_British_Artists. . The Physical Impossibility of Death in the Mind of Someone Living is an artwork created in 1991 by Damien Hirst, an English artist and a leading member of the "Young British Artists" (or YBA). It consists of a tiger shark preserved in formaldehyde in a vitrine. It was originally commissioned in 1991 by Charles Saatchi, who sold it in 2004, to Steven A. Cohen for an undisclosed amount, widely reported to have been $8 million. However, the title of Don Thompson's book, The $12 Million Stuffed Shark: The Curious Economics of Contemporary Art, suggests a higher figure.. The Physical Impossibility of Death in the Mind of Someone Living is an artwork created in 1991 by Damien Hirst, an English artist and a leading member of the "Young British Artists" (or YBA). It consists of a tiger shark preserved in formaldehyde in a vitrine. It was originally commissioned in 1991 by Charles Saatchi, who sold it in 2004, to Steven A. Cohen for an undisclosed amount, widely reported to have been $8 million. However, the title of Don Thompson's book, The $12 Million Stuffed Shark: The Curious Economics of Contemporary Art, suggests a higher figure. Owing to deterioration of the original 14-foot (4.3 m) tiger shark, it was replaced with a new specimen in 2006. It was on loan to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City from 2007 to 2010. It is considered the iconic work of British art in the 1990s, and has become a symbol of Britart worldwide.. 
Seven Sorrows Polyptych. Author Name: Albrecht Dürer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Seven Sorrows Polyptych is an oil on panel painting by Albrecht Dürer. The painting includes a central picture (108 x 43 cm), currently at the Alte Pinakothek in Munich, and seven surrounding panels (measuring some 60 x 46 cm) which are exhibited at the Gemäldegalerie Alte Meister of Dresden.. The Seven Sorrows Polyptych is an oil on panel painting by Albrecht Dürer. The painting includes a central picture (108 x 43 cm), currently at the Alte Pinakothek in Munich, and seven surrounding panels (measuring some 60 x 46 cm) which are exhibited at the Gemäldegalerie Alte Meister of Dresden.. 
The Beguiling of Merlin. Author Name: Sir Edward Burne-Jones, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Aestheticism. . The Beguiling of Merlin is a painting by the Pre-Raphaelite painter Edward Burne-Jones which was created between 1872 and 1877.The painting depicts a scene from Arthurian legend, the infatuation of Merlin with the Lady of the Lake, Nimue. Merlin is shown trapped, helpless in a hawthorn bush as Nimue reads from a book of spells.Burne-Jones used Maria Zambaco, who was probably his mistress from 1866 to 1872, for the model for the head of Nimue.The painting was purchased by Lord Leverhulme in 1918 and remains in the Lady Lever Art Gallery to the present day.. The Beguiling of Merlin is a painting by the Pre-Raphaelite painter Edward Burne-Jones which was created between 1872 and 1877. The painting depicts a scene from Arthurian legend, the infatuation of Merlin with the Lady of the Lake, Nimue. Merlin is shown trapped, helpless in a hawthorn bush as Nimue reads from a book of spells. The work was commissioned from Burne-Jones by Frederick Richards Leyland, a Liverpool ship-owner and art-collector, in the late 1860s. After a false start blamed on "poor materials" Burne-Jones began work on the painting proper in 1873, finishing the body of the work by the end of 1874; although the painting was not first exhibited until 1877 at the opening exhibition of the Grosvenor Gallery in London. Burne-Jones used Maria Zambaco, who was probably his mistress from 1866 to 1872, for the model for the head of Nimue. The painting was purchased by Lord Leverhulme in 1918 and remains in the Lady Lever Art Gallery to the present day. The painting features on the cover of the novel Possession: A Romance by A. S. Byatt and The Last Pre-Raphaelite by Fiona MacCarthy It also plays a significant role in King Solomon's Carpet by Ruth Rendell writing as Barbara Vine.. 
Science and Charity. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Science and Charity is an oil painting by Pablo Picasso painted in Barcelona in 1897 and now is part of the permanent collection of the Museu Picasso, Barcelona. This is one of the most representative works of the artist's early years of training and he did it when he was only 15 years old.. Science and Charity is an oil painting by Pablo Picasso painted in Barcelona in 1897 and now is part of the permanent collection of the Museu Picasso, Barcelona. This is one of the most representative works of the artist's early years of training and he did it when he was only 15 years old.. 
Men of Destiny. Author Name: Jack Butler Yeats. . . Men of Destiny is a painting by Irish artist, Jack Butler Yeats, painted in 1946. An oil artwork on canvas, the modernist piece is noted for the strength and vibrancy of its colour palette and is considered to rank amongst Yeats' best work. The painting is on permanent display at the National Gallery of Ireland.. Men of Destiny is a painting by Irish artist, Jack Butler Yeats, painted in 1946. An oil artwork on canvas, the modernist piece is noted for the strength and vibrancy of its colour palette and is considered to rank amongst Yeats' best work. The painting is on permanent display at the National Gallery of Ireland.. 
Philip II in Armour. Author Name: Titian. . . Philip II in Armour is a portrait of Philip II of Spain by Titian, painted in 1551 when they were both in Augsburg.. Philip II in Armour is a portrait of Philip II of Spain by Titian, painted in 1551 when they were both in Augsburg.. 
Chicago Picasso. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The Chicago Picasso (often just The Picasso) is an untitled monumental sculpture by Pablo Picasso in Chicago, Illinois. The sculpture, dedicated on August 15, 1967, in Daley Plaza in the Chicago Loop, is 50 feet (15.2 m) tall and weighs 162 short tons (147 t). The Cubist sculpture by Picasso was the first such major public artwork in Downtown Chicago, and has become a well known landmark.It is known for its inviting jungle gym-like characteristics. Visitors to Daley Plaza can often be seen climbing on and sliding down the base of the sculpture.. The Chicago Picasso (often just The Picasso) is an untitled monumental sculpture by Pablo Picasso in Chicago, Illinois. The sculpture, dedicated on August 15, 1967, in Daley Plaza in the Chicago Loop, is 50 feet (15.2 m) tall and weighs 162 short tons (147 t). The Cubist sculpture by Picasso was the first such major public artwork in Downtown Chicago, and has become a well known landmark. It is known for its inviting jungle gym-like characteristics. Visitors to Daley Plaza can often be seen climbing on and sliding down the base of the sculpture. The sculpture was commissioned by the architects of the Richard J. Daley Center in 1963. The commission was facilitated by the architect William Hartmann of the architectural firm of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill. Picasso completed a maquette of the sculpture in 1965, and approved a final model of the sculpture in 1966. The cost of constructing the sculpture was $351,959.17, paid mostly by three charitable foundations: the Woods Charitable Fund, the Chauncey and Marion Deering McCormick Foundation, and the Field Foundation of Illinois. Picasso himself was offered payment of $100,000 but refused, stating that he wanted to make his work a gift.. 
Madonna of the Rose Garden. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Madonna of the Rose Garden is a tempera on panel painting (124x64 cm) made by Sandro Botticelli, dated between 1469 and 1470, and preserved in the Uffizi Gallery in Florence.. The Madonna of the Rose Garden is a tempera on panel painting (124x64 cm) made by Sandro Botticelli, dated between 1469 and 1470, and preserved in the Uffizi Gallery in Florence.. 
Jacob Blessing the Sons of Joseph. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Jacob Blessing the Sons of Joseph is a 1656 oil painting by Dutch artist Rembrandt van Rijn. It is said to have almost “a sculptural surface with a translucent glaze over paint”. This piece is housed in the Museumslandschaft Hessen Kassel in Kassel, Germany.. Jacob Blessing the Sons of Joseph is a 1656 oil painting by Dutch artist Rembrandt van Rijn. It is said to have almost “a sculptural surface with a translucent glaze over paint”. This piece is housed in the Museumslandschaft Hessen Kassel in Kassel, Germany.. 
Moon Museum. Author Name: Andy Warhol. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . Moon Museum is a small ceramic wafer three-quarters of an inch by half an inch in size, containing artworks by six prominent artists from the late 1960s. The artists with works in the "museum" are Robert Rauschenberg, David Novros, John Chamberlain, Claes Oldenburg, Forrest Myers, and Andy Warhol.. Moon Museum is a small ceramic wafer three-quarters of an inch by half an inch in size, containing artworks by six prominent artists from the late 1960s. The artists with works in the "museum" are Robert Rauschenberg, David Novros, John Chamberlain, Claes Oldenburg, Forrest Myers, and Andy Warhol. This wafer was supposedly covertly attached to a leg of the Intrepid landing module, and subsequently left on the moon during Apollo 12. The moon museum is considered the first Space Art object. While it is impossible to tell if the Moon Museum is actually on the moon without sending another mission to look, technicians have admitted to placing personal effects onto the Apollo landers, hidden in the layers of gold blankets that wrapped parts of the spacecraft which remained on the moon after the astronauts departed.. 
Geopoliticus Child Watching the Birth of the New Man. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Geopoliticus Child Watching the Birth of the New Man is a 1943 painting by Salvador Dalí. The painting was done during Dalí's stay in the United States during 1940 to 1948. The painting is commonly thought to depict the change in the world America would bring at the end of WW2.. Geopoliticus Child Watching the Birth of the New Man is a 1943 painting by Salvador Dalí. The painting was done during Dalí's stay in the United States during 1940 to 1948. The painting is commonly thought to depict the change in the world America would bring at the end of WW2.. 
Littlefield Fountain. Author Name: Pompeo Coppini. . . Littlefield Fountain is a monument by Italian-born sculptor Pompeo Coppini, located on the main campus of The University of Texas at Austin in Austin, Texas.The fountain was built with money from a $250,000 trust established by Major George W. Littlefield as a memorial for University of Texas students and alumni who died in The Great War, now commonly known as World War I. It was unveiled in 1933, at a time when the Old Main Building was still in use.. Littlefield Fountain is a monument by Italian-born sculptor Pompeo Coppini, located on the main campus of The University of Texas at Austin in Austin, Texas. The fountain was built with money from a $250,000 trust established by Major George W. Littlefield as a memorial for University of Texas students and alumni who died in The Great War, now commonly known as World War I. It was unveiled in 1933, at a time when the Old Main Building was still in use. The memorial fountain is enscribed in Latin with BREVIS A NATURA NOBIS VITA DATA EST AT MEMORIA BENE REDDITAE VITAE SEMPITERNA. Translation - "A short life hath been given by Nature unto man; but the remembrance of a life laid down in a good cause endureth forever." Beneath this inscription is a memorial bronze plaque that lists all UT students and alumni killed in The Great War. Major George W. Littlefield first envisioned this monument to be an arch that would honor Confederate heroes. Given that an arch would cost more than the $250,000 Littlefield had intended in donating, Coppini persuaded him to make a fountain instead. Coppini was also responsible of the idea of dedicating the fountain to the students that had died in World War I, arguing that a Confederate monument would only prolong the sentiment of division that was still present from the Civil War. Coppini's actual words were: "As time goes by, they will look to the Civil War as a blot on the pages of American history, and the Littlefield Memorial will be resented as keeping up the hatred between the Northern and Southern states." In Coppini's original design, the fountain was to also display obelisks that would hold bronze statues of the biggest names in the civil war, both from the confederate and the union sides. The university ended up shutting this down this idea given that its cost would surpass the $250,000 that Littlefield had set aside for this work after his passing. Without the obelisks Coppini felt that the final result did not convey what he had originally intended, which was to glorify the union of two former enemies (north and south) during World War I.. 
The Dessert: Harmony in Red. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . The Dessert: Harmony in Red is a painting by French artist Henri Matisse, from 1908. It is considered by some critics to be Matisse's masterpiece. This Fauvist painting follows the example set by Impressionism with the overall lack of a central focal point.The painting was ordered as "Harmony in Blue," but Matisse was dissatisfied with the result, and so he painted it over with his preferred red.It is in the permanent collection of the Hermitage Museum.. The Dessert: Harmony in Red is a painting by French artist Henri Matisse, from 1908. It is considered by some critics to be Matisse's masterpiece. This Fauvist painting follows the example set by Impressionism with the overall lack of a central focal point. The painting was ordered as "Harmony in Blue," but Matisse was dissatisfied with the result, and so he painted it over with his preferred red. It is in the permanent collection of the Hermitage Museum.. 
Prelude to a Broken Arm. Author Name: Marcel Duchamp. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Conceptual_art. . Prelude to a Broken Arm (En prévision du bras cassé in French) is a 1915 sculpture by Dada artist Marcel Duchamp that consisted of a regular snow shovel with the title and "from Marcel Duchamp 1915" painted on the handle. An antidote to what he called "retinal art", this sculpture was the second of a series of sculptures that he called "ready-mades", the most famous of which is his 1917 Fontaine (Fountain). At the time, the term "ready-made" referred to manufactured goods as opposed to handmade goods, but Duchamp used the term to describe "an ordinary object elevated to the dignity of a work of art by the mere choice of an artist". The original was hung from a wire in the studio and has since been lost. It is believed that the shovel was mistaken for an ordinary snow shovel and was removed. Prelude to a Broken Arm (En prévision du bras cassé in French) is a 1915 sculpture by Dada artist Marcel Duchamp that consisted of a regular snow shovel with the title and "from Marcel Duchamp 1915" painted on the handle. An antidote to what he called "retinal art", this sculpture was the second of a series of sculptures that he called "ready-mades", the most famous of which is his 1917 Fontaine (Fountain). At the time, the term "ready-made" referred to manufactured goods as opposed to handmade goods, but Duchamp used the term to describe "an ordinary object elevated to the dignity of a work of art by the mere choice of an artist". The original was hung from a wire in the studio and has since been lost. It is believed that the shovel was mistaken for an ordinary snow shovel and was removed to move snow off the sidewalks of Chicago. A replica of the sculpture is on display at the Yale University Art Gallery in New Haven, Connecticut.. 
The Coronation of the Virtuous Hero. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Crowning of the Virtuous Hero is a painting by Peter Paul Rubens, painted between 1613 and 1614. Unsigned, it was commissioned by the St George Guild of Archers in Antwerp for their banqueting hall and is now in the Gemäldegalerie Alte Meister within the Schloss Wilhelmshöhe in Kassel.. The Crowning of the Virtuous Hero is a painting by Peter Paul Rubens, painted between 1613 and 1614. Unsigned, it was commissioned by the St George Guild of Archers in Antwerp for their banqueting hall and is now in the Gemäldegalerie Alte Meister within the Schloss Wilhelmshöhe in Kassel.. 
The Last Judgment. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . The Last Judgment is a triptych by Hieronymus Bosch, created after 1482.The triptych currently resides at the Academy of Fine Arts in Vienna, Austria. The outside of the shutters panel are painted in grisaille on panel, while the inside shutters and the center panel are painted in oil. The left and right panels measure 167.7 x 60 cm and the center panel measures 164 x 127 cm. It is not to be confused with either a fragmented piece of art by Bosch under the same title (now at Munich), or another full painting by Bosch, possibly by a painter in his workshop.. The Last Judgment is a triptych by Hieronymus Bosch, created after 1482. The triptych currently resides at the Academy of Fine Arts in Vienna, Austria. The outside of the shutters panel are painted in grisaille on panel, while the inside shutters and the center panel are painted in oil. The left and right panels measure 167.7 x 60 cm and the center panel measures 164 x 127 cm. It is not to be confused with either a fragmented piece of art by Bosch under the same title (now at Munich), or another full painting by Bosch, possibly by a painter in his workshop. The left panel shows the Garden of Eden, at the top God is shown seated in Heaven while the Rebel Angels are cast out of Heaven and transformed into insects. At the foot of the panel, God creates Eve from the rib of Adam. In the midground Eve is tempted by the Serpent, while the couple are finally seen being chased by the Angel into the dark forest, in the central panel where Jesus judges the souls while surrounded by the Saints. The right panel shows a Hellscape, where the wicked are punished.. 
Bonaparte, First Consul. Author Name: Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . Bonaparte, First Consul (Bonaparte, Premier Consul) is an 1804 portrait of Napoleon Bonaparte as First Consul by Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres. The painting is now in the collection of the Curtius Museum in Liège. Posing the hand inside the waistcoat was often used in portraits of rulers to indicate calm and stable leadership.. Bonaparte, First Consul (Bonaparte, Premier Consul) is an 1804 portrait of Napoleon Bonaparte as First Consul by Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres. The painting is now in the collection of the Curtius Museum in Liège. Posing the hand inside the waistcoat was often used in portraits of rulers to indicate calm and stable leadership.. 
Dance at Bougival. Author Name: Pierre-Auguste Renoir. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Dance at Bougival (French: Bal à Bougival) is an 1883 work by Pierre-Auguste Renoir currently in the collection of the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America. It has been described as "one of the museum's most beloved works".. Dance at Bougival (French: Bal à Bougival) is an 1883 work by Pierre-Auguste Renoir currently in the collection of the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America. It has been described as "one of the museum's most beloved works".. 
Sappho and Phaon. Author Name: Jacques-Louis David. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . Sappho and Phaon is an 1809 neoclassical painting by the French painter Jacques-Louis David of Cupid, Sappho and her lover Phaon. It was commissioned by Prince Nikolai Yusupov for his Moika Palace and is now the only painting by David in the Hermitage Museum in Saint Petersburg.. Sappho and Phaon is an 1809 neoclassical painting by the French painter Jacques-Louis David of Cupid, Sappho and her lover Phaon. It was commissioned by Prince Nikolai Yusupov for his Moika Palace and is now the only painting by David in the Hermitage Museum in Saint Petersburg. Sappho is shown sitting in a chair at the foot of a bed in a classically decorated room with columns, a marble floor and a view to a rural landscape outside (with Venus's birds, doves, sitting on the doorstep). Phaon stands behind the chair holding a spear and bow. On her knee is a scroll with some of her verses in praise of Phaon and Cupid kneels in front of her, holding up her lyre, which she tries to play with her right hand whilst leaning her head back to let Phaon cradle her head in his left arm.. 
Burls Will Be Burls. Author Name: Conkle, Bruce. . . Burls Will Be Burls is an outdoor 2009 bronze sculpture by American artist Bruce Conkle, located in Portland, Oregon.. Burls Will Be Burls is an outdoor 2009 bronze sculpture by American artist Bruce Conkle, located in Portland, Oregon.. 
Rebellious Slave. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Rebellious Slave is a 2.15m high marble statue by Michelangelo, dated to 1513. It is now held in the Louvre in Paris.. The Rebellious Slave is a 2.15m high marble statue by Michelangelo, dated to 1513. It is now held in the Louvre in Paris.. 
The Dinner Party. Author Name: Judy Chicago. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Contemporary_history. . The Dinner Party is an installation artwork by feminist artist Judy Chicago. Widely regarded as the first epic feminist artwork, it functions as a symbolic history of women in Western civilization. There are 39 elaborate place settings arranged along a triangular table for 39 mythical and historical famous women. Virginia Woolf, Susan B. Anthony, Sojourner Truth, Eleanor of Aquitaine, Empress Theodora of Byzantium, and Georgia O'Keeffe are among the guests.. The Dinner Party is an installation artwork by feminist artist Judy Chicago. Widely regarded as the first epic feminist artwork, it functions as a symbolic history of women in Western civilization. There are 39 elaborate place settings arranged along a triangular table for 39 mythical and historical famous women. Virginia Woolf, Susan B. Anthony, Sojourner Truth, Eleanor of Aquitaine, Empress Theodora of Byzantium, and Georgia O'Keeffe are among the guests. Each unique place-setting includes a hand-painted china plate, ceramic flatware and chalice, and a napkin with an embroidered gold edge. Each plate, except the one corresponding to Sojourner Truth, depicts a brightly-colored, elaborately styled vagina-esque form. The settings rest upon elaborately embroidered runners, executed in a variety of needlework styles and techniques. The dinner table stands on The Heritage Floor, made up of more than 2,000 white luster-glazed triangular-shaped tiles, each inscribed in gold scripts with the name of one of 999 women who have made a mark on history. It was produced from 1974 to 1979 as a collaboration and was first exhibited in 1979. Subsequently, despite art world resistance, it toured to 16 venues in 6 countries on 3 continents to a viewing audience of 15 million. It was retired to storage until 1996, as it was beginning to suffer from constant traveling. Since 2007 it has been on permanent exhibition in the Elizabeth A. Sackler Center for Feminist Art at the Brooklyn Museum, New York.. 
Terraced Village. Author Name: Joaquin Mir Trinxet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Modernisme. . Terraced Village is a painting by Joaquim Mir currently exhibited at the National Art Museum of Catalonia.. Terraced Village is a painting by Joaquim Mir currently exhibited at the National Art Museum of Catalonia.. 
St. Michael. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . St. Michael is an oil painting by Italian artist Raphael. Also called the Little St. Michael to distinguish it from a larger, later treatment of the same theme, St. Michael Vanquishing Satan, it is housed in the Louvre in Paris. The work depicts the Archangel Michael in combat with the demons of Hell, while the damned suffer behind him. Along with St. George, it represents the first of Raphael's works on martial subjects.. St. Michael is an oil painting by Italian artist Raphael. Also called the Little St. Michael to distinguish it from a larger, later treatment of the same theme, St. Michael Vanquishing Satan, it is housed in the Louvre in Paris. The work depicts the Archangel Michael in combat with the demons of Hell, while the damned suffer behind him. Along with St. George, it represents the first of Raphael's works on martial subjects.. 
Farmhouses Among Trees. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Farmhouses Among Trees is an oil painting created by Dutch artist Vincent van Gogh in September 1883.. Farmhouses Among Trees is an oil painting created by Dutch artist Vincent van Gogh in September 1883.. 
Self-portrait in a Convex Mirror. Author Name: Parmigianino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . Self-portrait in a Convex Mirror (c. 1524) is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance artist Parmigianino. It is housed in the Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna, Austria.. Self-portrait in a Convex Mirror (c. 1524) is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance artist Parmigianino. It is housed in the Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna, Austria.. 
The Beaneater. Author Name: Annibale Carracci. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Beaneater (Italian: Mangiafagioli) is a painting by the Italian Baroque painter Annibale Carracci. Dating from 1580-1590 (probably 1583-1585), it is housed in the gallery of Palazzo Colonna of Rome.The painting is connected to the contemporary Butcher's Shop (now at Oxford), for it shares the same popularesque style. Painted in Bologna, it is a broadly and realistically painted still life, which owes much to Flanders and Holland.. The Beaneater (Italian: Mangiafagioli) is a painting by the Italian Baroque painter Annibale Carracci. Dating from 1580-1590 (probably 1583-1585), it is housed in the gallery of Palazzo Colonna of Rome. The painting is connected to the contemporary Butcher's Shop (now at Oxford), for it shares the same popularesque style. Painted in Bologna, it is a broadly and realistically painted still life, which owes much to Flanders and Holland. Carracci was also influenced in the depiction of everyday life subjects by Vincenzo Campi and Bartolomeo Passarotti. Manifest is Carracci's capability to adapt his style, making it "lower" when concerning "lower" subjects like the Mangiafagioli, while in his more academic works (such as the broadly contemporary Assumption of the Virgin) he was able to use a more classicist composure with the same easiness.. 
Daniel Webster. Author Name: Thomas Ball. . . Daniel Webster is an outdoor bronze sculpture of Daniel Webster by artist Thomas Ball, located at Central Park in Manhattan, New York. The "larger-than-life-size" statue was commissioned in the 1870s, to be installed along Central Park's Mall. It was instead installed along the West Drive at 72nd Street due to size restrictions. Daniel Webster was presented by Gordon W. Burnham in 1876.. Daniel Webster is an outdoor bronze sculpture of Daniel Webster by artist Thomas Ball, located at Central Park in Manhattan, New York. The "larger-than-life-size" statue was commissioned in the 1870s, to be installed along Central Park's Mall. It was instead installed along the West Drive at 72nd Street due to size restrictions. Daniel Webster was presented by Gordon W. Burnham in 1876.. 
Hotel by a Railroad. Author Name: Edward Hopper. . . Hotel by a Railroad is a painting completed in 1952 by the American realist painter and printmaker Edward Hopper. It is painted in oil on canvas and measures 101.981 by 79.375 centimeters. It is in a private collection.. Hotel by a Railroad is a painting completed in 1952 by the American realist painter and printmaker Edward Hopper. It is painted in oil on canvas and measures 101.981 by 79.375 centimeters. It is in a private collection.. 
The Music Group. Author Name: Goslawski, Jozef. . . The Music (also known as The Music Group, Polish: Muzyka, Grupa Muzyka) is one of three sculptures located on the roof of the building on Koszykowa Street 34/50 in Warsaw since 1952. The project was chosen after an artistic competition. The monument was designed by Józef Gosławski, but his wife - Wanda - and his brother - Stanisław - helped him with its realization because of the short deadline. Lack of scaffolds, problems with obtaining funds and the short deadline forced the artists to write a letter to the chief architect of Warsaw - Józef Sigalin. After that, the conditions were improved and work was completed on time.. The Music (also known as The Music Group, Polish: Muzyka, Grupa Muzyka) is one of three sculptures located on the roof of the building on Koszykowa Street 34/50 in Warsaw since 1952. The project was chosen after an artistic competition. The monument was designed by Józef Gosławski, but his wife - Wanda - and his brother - Stanisław - helped him with its realization because of the short deadline. Lack of scaffolds, problems with obtaining funds and the short deadline forced the artists to write a letter to the chief architect of Warsaw - Józef Sigalin. After that, the conditions were improved and work was completed on time. The image of Music Group was on one of the postcards published in 1952. It cost 1.30 zł, of which 0.08 zł was spent on The Social Fund of Reconstruction of Capital City.. 
Coming South. Author Name: Tom Roberts. . . Coming South is a 1886 painting by the Australian artist Tom Roberts. The painting depicts migrants coming to Australia from Europe aboard a steamship. Roberts based the painting on sketches he had made when returning to Australia aboard the SS Lusitania in 1885 after four years abroad in Europe.Historian Humphrey McQueen describes Coming South as one of Roberts' seven best-known paintings. The National Gallery of Victoria describes it as "a definitive image of the migrant experience" and "Roberts's first exploration of one of the great themes of Australian life".. Coming South is a 1886 painting by the Australian artist Tom Roberts. The painting depicts migrants coming to Australia from Europe aboard a steamship. Roberts based the painting on sketches he had made when returning to Australia aboard the SS Lusitania in 1885 after four years abroad in Europe. Historian Humphrey McQueen describes Coming South as one of Roberts' seven best-known paintings. The National Gallery of Victoria describes it as "a definitive image of the migrant experience" and "Roberts's first exploration of one of the great themes of Australian life". The painting was acquired by the National Gallery of Victoria in 1967.. 
Farmhouse in Provence. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Farmhouse in Provence also known as Entrance Gate to a Farm with Haystacks was made in 1888 by Vincent van Gogh in Arles in Provence at the height of his career. Partially due to having been inspired by painter Adolphe Monticelli, Van Gogh sought the Provence region of France to further expand his painting skill and experience. Van Gogh used several pairs of complementary colors in the Farmhouse in Provence, the color contrast bringing an intensity to his work. The painting is owned by the National Gallery of Art of Washington, D.C.. Farmhouse in Provence also known as Entrance Gate to a Farm with Haystacks was made in 1888 by Vincent van Gogh in Arles in Provence at the height of his career. Partially due to having been inspired by painter Adolphe Monticelli, Van Gogh sought the Provence region of France to further expand his painting skill and experience. Van Gogh used several pairs of complementary colors in the Farmhouse in Provence, the color contrast bringing an intensity to his work. The painting is owned by the National Gallery of Art of Washington, D.C.. 
Portrait of a Kleptomaniac. Author Name: Théodore Géricault. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . Portrait of a Kleptomaniac or Portrait of an Insane Person (French : L'Aliéné or Le Kleptomane) is an 1822 oil painting by Théodore Géricault. It is part of series of ten portraits made for the psychiatrist Étienne-Jean Georget and is currently kept in the Museum of Fine Arts, Ghent, Belgium.. Portrait of a Kleptomaniac or Portrait of an Insane Person (French : L'Aliéné or Le Kleptomane) is an 1822 oil painting by Théodore Géricault. It is part of series of ten portraits made for the psychiatrist Étienne-Jean Georget and is currently kept in the Museum of Fine Arts, Ghent, Belgium.. 
James Watt's Mad Machine. Author Name: Tim Tolkien. . . James Watt's Mad Machine is a set of sculptural railings and gates at Winson Green Metro station, Winson Green, Birmingham, England, designed by Tim Tolkien, supported by Eric Klein Velderman, Paula Woof and pupils at James Watt Infants and Junior Schools, with whose site it forms a boundary. It was created in 1998.It is inspired by the inventions of James Watt, who lived and worked nearby.. James Watt's Mad Machine is a set of sculptural railings and gates at Winson Green Metro station, Winson Green, Birmingham, England, designed by Tim Tolkien, supported by Eric Klein Velderman, Paula Woof and pupils at James Watt Infants and Junior Schools, with whose site it forms a boundary. It was created in 1998. It is inspired by the inventions of James Watt, who lived and worked nearby.. 
Christ at the Column. Author Name: Fernandez, Gregorio. . . Christ at the Column is a life-size sculpture by the Spanish artist Gregorio Fernández executed in 1619, it is housed in the Church of the True Cross in Valladolid.Fernández was commissioned by the Illustrious Penitential Brotherhood of the Holy Cross, to undertake a “paso”, a group of wooden statues, depicting the flagellation of Christ. The sculpture of the Christ started as a figure for this composition and was in the mid 18th century when the sculpture was presented as a separate and independent work.The sculpture is characterized by combining classical form and naturalism with the intensity of religious emotion.. Christ at the Column is a life-size sculpture by the Spanish artist Gregorio Fernández executed in 1619, it is housed in the Church of the True Cross in Valladolid. Fernández was commissioned by the Illustrious Penitential Brotherhood of the Holy Cross, to undertake a “paso”, a group of wooden statues, depicting the flagellation of Christ. The sculpture of the Christ started as a figure for this composition and was in the mid 18th century when the sculpture was presented as a separate and independent work.The sculpture is characterized by combining classical form and naturalism with the intensity of religious emotion.. 
Men in Her Life. Author Name: Andy Warhol. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Men in Her Life is a 1962 painting by Andy Warhol. It is a black and white painting inspired by the life of Elizabeth Taylor, a seven foot tall creation of the artist.. Men in Her Life is a 1962 painting by Andy Warhol. It is a black and white painting inspired by the life of Elizabeth Taylor, a seven foot tall creation of the artist.. 
Crucifixion. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Crucifixion (Corpus Hypercubus) is a 1954 oil-on-canvas painting by Salvador Dalí which depicts the Crucifixion of Jesus, though it deviates from traditional portrayals of the Crucifixion by depicting Christ on the polyhedron net of a hypercube and adding elements of Surrealism. It is one of his most well known paintings from the later period of his career.. Crucifixion (Corpus Hypercubus) is a 1954 oil-on-canvas painting by Salvador Dalí which depicts the Crucifixion of Jesus, though it deviates from traditional portrayals of the Crucifixion by depicting Christ on the polyhedron net of a hypercube and adding elements of Surrealism. It is one of his most well known paintings from the later period of his career.. 
Walking to the Sky. Author Name: Jonathan Borofsky. . . Walking to the Sky is a public sculpture by Jonathan Borofsky. The original was installed at Rockefeller Center in the fall of 2004 before being moved to the Nasher Sculpture Center in Dallas, Texas in 2005. A copy is installed on the campus of Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States.  Another copy is installed in front of the Kiturami Homsys Co. building in Hwagok-dong, Gangseo-gu, Seoul, South Korea.. Walking to the Sky is a public sculpture by Jonathan Borofsky. The original was installed at Rockefeller Center in the fall of 2004 before being moved to the Nasher Sculpture Center in Dallas, Texas in 2005. A copy is installed on the campus of Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States. Another copy is installed in front of the Kiturami Homsys Co. building in Hwagok-dong, Gangseo-gu, Seoul, South Korea. The seven-ton work depicts a little girl, a businesswoman, a young man, and several others scaling a soaring 100-foot-tall stainless steel pole. Three people are looking upward from the base of the pole, which points to the east at a 75-degree angle. The piece was inspired by a story that Borofsky's father used to tell him when he was a child about a friendly giant who lived in the sky. In each tale, father and son would travel up to the sky to talk to the giant about what needed to be done for everyone back on earth. The artist says the sculpture is "a celebration of the human potential for discovering who we are and where we need to go.". 
Public sculpture of Stephen Foster in Pittsburgh. Author Name: Giuseppe Moretti. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Beaux-Arts_architecture. . Stephen Foster is a landmark public sculpture in bronze by Giuseppe Moretti on Schenley Plaza in the Oakland section of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Sited along Forbes Avenue near the entrance of Carnegie Museum of Natural History, in the shadow of Dippy, a life-size sculpture of a Diplodocus dinosaur, and in close proximity to the University of Pittsburgh's Stephen Foster Memorial, the Foster statue is one of the city's best known and most controversial.. Stephen Foster is a landmark public sculpture in bronze by Giuseppe Moretti on Schenley Plaza in the Oakland section of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Sited along Forbes Avenue near the entrance of Carnegie Museum of Natural History, in the shadow of Dippy, a life-size sculpture of a Diplodocus dinosaur, and in close proximity to the University of Pittsburgh's Stephen Foster Memorial, the Foster statue is one of the city's best known and most controversial. The work of art is composed of two figures: a seated Stephen Collins Foster, the famous Pittsburgh-born songwriter with a notebook in hand, catching inspiration from a Negro slave at his feet strumming a banjo. The sculpture's pedestal is four feet, three inches, and the figures measure ten feet.. 
Fortitude. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Fortitude is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli, finished in 1470. It is housed in the Galleria degli Uffizi, in Florence. Fortitude is the first recorded work by Botticelli.This work originally belonged to a set of seven panels representing Virtues, intended to decorate the Tribunal Hall of Piazza della Signoria in Florence. The other six panels are painted by Pietro Pollaiolo's workshop.. The Fortitude is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli, finished in 1470. It is housed in the Galleria degli Uffizi, in Florence. Fortitude is the first recorded work by Botticelli. This work originally belonged to a set of seven panels representing Virtues, intended to decorate the Tribunal Hall of Piazza della Signoria in Florence. The other six panels are painted by Pietro Pollaiolo's workshop.. 
Girl with a Red Hat. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . Girl with a Red Hat is a rather small painting, signed by the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer. It is seen as one of a number of Vermeer's tronies – depictions of models fancifully dressed that were not (as far as is known) intended to be portraits of specific, identifiable subjects. Other believe it is a portrait.[citation needed] Whether Vermeer chose family members as models or found them elsewhere in Delft is irrelevant to the appreciation of his paintings. Its attribution to Vermeer – as it is on a (recycled) wood panel and not on canvas – has been a matter of controversy with scholars on both sides of the argument.. Girl with a Red Hat is a rather small painting, signed by the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer. It is seen as one of a number of Vermeer's tronies – depictions of models fancifully dressed that were not (as far as is known) intended to be portraits of specific, identifiable subjects. Other believe it is a portrait.[citation needed] Whether Vermeer chose family members as models or found them elsewhere in Delft is irrelevant to the appreciation of his paintings. Its attribution to Vermeer – as it is on a (recycled) wood panel and not on canvas – has been a matter of controversy with scholars on both sides of the argument.. 
The Accommodations of Desire. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The Accommodation of Desire is a 1929 surrealist oil painting and mixed media collage on board by Spanish artist Salvador Dalí. Dalí was inspired to create the piece after a walk with his future wife Gala Dalí, who was at the time married to fellow surrealist Paul Éluard, with whom Dalí was having an affair. The painting purportedly represents Dalí's anxiety over the situation, and what the future would hold for him. The painted work consists primarily of seven large pebbles, each with a different symbol that Dalí believed would come to pass as a result of the affair. The piece is perhaps most notable for its use of pasted-on cutouts from a children's book whose visual style bears a striking resemblance to the aesthetic of the painting itself. It is currently housed in the Museum of Modern. The Accommodation of Desire is a 1929 surrealist oil painting and mixed media collage on board by Spanish artist Salvador Dalí. Dalí was inspired to create the piece after a walk with his future wife Gala Dalí, who was at the time married to fellow surrealist Paul Éluard, with whom Dalí was having an affair. The painting purportedly represents Dalí's anxiety over the situation, and what the future would hold for him. The painted work consists primarily of seven large pebbles, each with a different symbol that Dalí believed would come to pass as a result of the affair. The piece is perhaps most notable for its use of pasted-on cutouts from a children's book whose visual style bears a striking resemblance to the aesthetic of the painting itself. It is currently housed in the Museum of Modern Art in New York City.. 
The cricketers. Author Name: Sir Russell Drysdale. . . The cricketers is a 1948 painting by the Australian artist Russell Drysdale. The painting depicts three boys set among the buildings in an empty town; two playing cricket and the other watching them. The National Gallery of Australia describes the painting as "one of the most original and haunting images in all Australian art." The Sydney Morning Herald said the work is "possibly the most famous Australian painting of the 20th century.". The cricketers is a 1948 painting by the Australian artist Russell Drysdale. The painting depicts three boys set among the buildings in an empty town; two playing cricket and the other watching them. The National Gallery of Australia describes the painting as "one of the most original and haunting images in all Australian art." The Sydney Morning Herald said the work is "possibly the most famous Australian painting of the 20th century.". 
The Great Masturbator. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The Great Masturbator (1929) is a painting by Salvador Dalí executed during the surrealist epoch, and is currently displayed at Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofía, Madrid.. The Great Masturbator (1929) is a painting by Salvador Dalí executed during the surrealist epoch, and is currently displayed at Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofía, Madrid.. 
Madonna and Child. Author Name: Fra' Filippo Lippi, O.Carm.. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . Madonna with Child (Italian: Madonna col Bambino e angeli or Lippina) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Filippo Lippi. The date around which it was executed is unknown, but most art historians agree that it was painted during the last part of Lippi’s career, between 1450 and 1465. It is one of the few works by Lippi which was not executed with the help of his workshop and was an influential model for later depictions of the Madonna and Child, including those by Sandro Botticelli. The painting is housed in the Uffizi Gallery, Florence, Italy, and is therefore commonly called “The Uffizi Madonna” among art historians.. Madonna with Child (Italian: Madonna col Bambino e angeli or Lippina) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Filippo Lippi. The date around which it was executed is unknown, but most art historians agree that it was painted during the last part of Lippi’s career, between 1450 and 1465. It is one of the few works by Lippi which was not executed with the help of his workshop and was an influential model for later depictions of the Madonna and Child, including those by Sandro Botticelli. The painting is housed in the Uffizi Gallery, Florence, Italy, and is therefore commonly called “The Uffizi Madonna” among art historians.. 
Adamo ed Eva. Author Name: Tamara de Lempicka. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Art_Deco. . Adam and Eve (Italian: Adamo ed Eva) is an oil on panel painting by a Polish Art Deco painter Tamara de Lempicka. It was completed in 1932 and is a religious subject based on the Art Deco style. The painting is 116 by 73 centimeters, and is housed in a private collection.. Adam and Eve (Italian: Adamo ed Eva) is an oil on panel painting by a Polish Art Deco painter Tamara de Lempicka. It was completed in 1932 and is a religious subject based on the Art Deco style. The painting is 116 by 73 centimeters, and is housed in a private collection.. 
Table with Pink Tablecloth. Author Name: Artschwager, Richard. . Author Movement: Conceptual. . Table with Pink Tablecloth is an artwork by American artist Richard Artschwager, now in the collection of the Art Institute of Chicago.It is a work in three-dimensions constructed of Formica on wood. Art critic Ken Johnson referred to "Table With Pink Tablecloth" as Artschwager's "most famous sculpture". It was made in 1964 using skills Artschwager gained designing furniture using similar materials and similar techniques. The sculpture measures 64.8 x 111.8 x 111.8 cm (25 1/2 x 44 x 44 in). Stylistically it shares attributes of Pop art and Minimalism.. Table with Pink Tablecloth is an artwork by American artist Richard Artschwager, now in the collection of the Art Institute of Chicago. It is a work in three-dimensions constructed of Formica on wood. Art critic Ken Johnson referred to "Table With Pink Tablecloth" as Artschwager's "most famous sculpture". It was made in 1964 using skills Artschwager gained designing furniture using similar materials and similar techniques. The sculpture measures 64.8 x 111.8 x 111.8 cm (25 1/2 x 44 x 44 in). Stylistically it shares attributes of Pop art and Minimalism. Artschwager is quoted as saying "It’s not sculptural. It’s more like a painting pushed into three dimensions. It’s a picture of wood." At the 2009 Venice Biennale, sculptor Rachel Harrison recreated Table with Pink Tablecloth in tribute.. 
Portrait of the Postman Joseph Roulin  F432. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . The Roulin Family is group of portrait paintings Vincent van Gogh executed in Arles in 1888 and 1889 on Joseph, his wife Augustine and their three children: Armand, Camille and Marcelle. This series is unique in many ways. Although Van Gogh loved to paint portraits, it was difficult for financial and other reasons for him to find models. So, finding an entire family that agreed to sit for paintings — in fact, for several sittings each — was a bounty.. The Roulin Family is group of portrait paintings Vincent van Gogh executed in Arles in 1888 and 1889 on Joseph, his wife Augustine and their three children: Armand, Camille and Marcelle. This series is unique in many ways. Although Van Gogh loved to paint portraits, it was difficult for financial and other reasons for him to find models. So, finding an entire family that agreed to sit for paintings — in fact, for several sittings each — was a bounty. Joseph Roulin became a particularly good, loyal and supporting friend to Van Gogh during his stay in Arles. To represent a man he truly admired was important to him. The family, with children ranging in age from four months to seventeen years, also gave him the opportunity to produce works of individuals in several different stages of life. Rather than making photographic-like works, Van Gogh used his imagination, colors and themes artistically and creatively to evoke desired emotions from the audience.. 
The Census at Bethlehem. Author Name: Pieter Bruegel the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_and_Flemish_Renaissance_painting. . The Census at Bethlehem (also known as The Numbering at Bethlehem) is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in 1566. Acquired in 1902, it is currently held and exhibited at the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium in Brussels.. The Census at Bethlehem (also known as The Numbering at Bethlehem) is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in 1566. Acquired in 1902, it is currently held and exhibited at the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium in Brussels.. 
Children's Games. Author Name: Pieter Bruegel the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_and_Flemish_Renaissance_painting. . Children's Games is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in 1560. It is currently held and exhibited at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna.. Children's Games is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in 1560. It is currently held and exhibited at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna.. 
Mars Being Disarmed by Venus. Author Name: Jacques-Louis David. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . Mars Being Disarmed by Venus is the last painting produced by the French artist Jacques-Louis David. He began it in 1822 (aged 73) during his exile in Brussels and completed it three years later, before dying in an accident in 1825. He sent it to an exhibition in Paris from his exile, knowing that by then Romanticism was ascendant in the Salon. In 2007 it was displayed in the main hall of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium in Brussels, close to the entrance.. Mars Being Disarmed by Venus is the last painting produced by the French artist Jacques-Louis David. He began it in 1822 (aged 73) during his exile in Brussels and completed it three years later, before dying in an accident in 1825. He sent it to an exhibition in Paris from his exile, knowing that by then Romanticism was ascendant in the Salon. In 2007 it was displayed in the main hall of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium in Brussels, close to the entrance. At over 3 m (10 ft) high it is an imposing work. Set before a temple floating in the clouds, Venus the goddess of love and her followers, the three Graces and Cupid, are shown taking away the weapons, helmet, shield and armour of Mars the god of war. He allows himself to be disarmed and gives in to Venus's charms. Most of David's models for it were figures involved in the Théâtre de la Monnaie: Venus was modelled by the actress Marie Lesueur, Cupid by Lucien Petipa, Mars by a subscriber or 'abonné', and one of the Graces by the Prince of Orange's mistress.. 
Ecce Homo. Author Name: Antonello da Messina. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Ecce Homo is the title of a series of paintings by the Italian Renaissance master Antonello da Messina. They date from 1470 to 1475.Antonello is known to have treated this subject four times; three (b, c, d) are variations of the same design; a fourth (a) differs.. Ecce Homo is the title of a series of paintings by the Italian Renaissance master Antonello da Messina. They date from 1470 to 1475. Antonello is known to have treated this subject four times; three (b, c, d) are variations of the same design; a fourth (a) differs.. 
Maxwell & Demon Gargoyle. Author Name: Wayne Chabre. . . Maxwell & Demon Gargoyle is an outdoor 1989 sculpture by Wayne Chabre, installed in Eugene, Oregon, in the United States. It is a low-relief portrait depicting Scottish physicist James Clerk Maxwell and his "demon", attached to the exterior of Willamette Hall on the University of Oregon campus. The hammered copper sheet sculpture measures approximately 3.15 feet (0.96 m) x 2.5 feet (0.76 m) x 1.5 feet (0.46 m). Its condition was undetermined when the Smithsonian Institution's "Save Outdoor Sculpture!" program surveyed the work in 1994.. Maxwell & Demon Gargoyle is an outdoor 1989 sculpture by Wayne Chabre, installed in Eugene, Oregon, in the United States. It is a low-relief portrait depicting Scottish physicist James Clerk Maxwell and his "demon", attached to the exterior of Willamette Hall on the University of Oregon campus. The hammered copper sheet sculpture measures approximately 3.15 feet (0.96 m) x 2.5 feet (0.76 m) x 1.5 feet (0.46 m). Its condition was undetermined when the Smithsonian Institution's "Save Outdoor Sculpture!" program surveyed the work in 1994.. 
Boulevard des Capucines. Author Name: Claude Monet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Boulevard des Capucines is an oil on canvas street scene painting of Boulevard des Capucines by French Impressionist artist Claude Monet created in 1873.From the late 1860s, Monet and other like-minded artists, met with rejection from the conservative Académie des Beaux-Arts which held its annual exhibition at the Salon de Paris. During the latter part of 1873, Monet, Renoir, Pissarro, and Sisley organized the Société anonyme des artistes peintres, sculpteurs et graveurs to exhibit their artworks independently. At their first exhibition, held in April 1874, Monet exhibited the work that was to give the group its lasting name, Impression, Sunrise. Among the works Monet included in the first Impressionist exhibition was The Luncheon, 1868, which features Camille Doncieux and Jean Monet. The . Boulevard des Capucines is an oil on canvas street scene painting of Boulevard des Capucines by French Impressionist artist Claude Monet created in 1873. From the late 1860s, Monet and other like-minded artists, met with rejection from the conservative Académie des Beaux-Arts which held its annual exhibition at the Salon de Paris. During the latter part of 1873, Monet, Renoir, Pissarro, and Sisley organized the Société anonyme des artistes peintres, sculpteurs et graveurs to exhibit their artworks independently. At their first exhibition, held in April 1874, Monet exhibited the work that was to give the group its lasting name, Impression, Sunrise. Among the works Monet included in the first Impressionist exhibition was The Luncheon, 1868, which features Camille Doncieux and Jean Monet. The painting was rejected by the Paris Salon of 1870. Also in this exhibition was a painting titled Boulevard des Capucines, a painting of the boulevard done from the photographer Nadar's apartment at no. 35. Monet painted the subject twice and it is uncertain which of the two pictures, that now in the Pushkin Museum in Moscow, or that in the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art in Kansas City (shown here) was the painting that appeared in the groundbreaking 1874 exhibition, though more recently the Moscow picture has been favoured.. 
St. Bernardino of Siena between Two Angels. Author Name: Andrea Mantegna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . St. Bernardino of Siena between Two Angels is a painting attributed to the Italian Renaissance artist Andrea Mantegna and his assistants, dated to 1460 and housed in the Pinacoteca di Brera of Milan.The painting was located in the funerary chapel of marquis Ludovico III Gonzaga, dedicated to St. Bernardino and situated in church of San Francesco in Mantua. It was acquired by the Milanese gallery in 1811.. St. Bernardino of Siena between Two Angels is a painting attributed to the Italian Renaissance artist Andrea Mantegna and his assistants, dated to 1460 and housed in the Pinacoteca di Brera of Milan. The painting was located in the funerary chapel of marquis Ludovico III Gonzaga, dedicated to St. Bernardino and situated in church of San Francesco in Mantua. It was acquired by the Milanese gallery in 1811.. 
Die Fahne Hoch!. Author Name: Frank Stella. . Author Movement: Modernism, Minimal art, Abstract expressionism, Geometric abstraction, Abstract Illusionism, Lyrical abstraction, Hard-edge painting, Shaped canvas painting, Color field painting. . Die Fahne Hoch! is a Minimalist painting by Frank Stella completed in 1959. The use of basic geometric systems in the work is regarded by many as the precursor of Minimalism. The painting was made by marking equal subdivisions along the sides, bottom and top edges of the canvas and using these intervals to generate simple, symmetrical patterns consisting of bands of black enamel paint separated by thin lines of unpainted canvas.. Die Fahne Hoch! is a Minimalist painting by Frank Stella completed in 1959. The use of basic geometric systems in the work is regarded by many as the precursor of Minimalism. The painting was made by marking equal subdivisions along the sides, bottom and top edges of the canvas and using these intervals to generate simple, symmetrical patterns consisting of bands of black enamel paint separated by thin lines of unpainted canvas.. 
Raised left hand. Author Name: Julio González. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Raised Left Hand is a bronze sculpture by Julio González displayed in the Museu Nacional d'Art de Catalunya, created in 1942, the year of his death. This work of art was created as a plaster cast, and then later casted in bronze. It is unclear if the when or if the artist casted the final sculpture. Other sculptures created within the last months of the artist's life were casted in bronze posthumous. For example, the other monumental sculpture created in this period, Head of the Montserrat, II, was casted in bronze after the artist's death.. Raised Left Hand is a bronze sculpture by Julio González displayed in the Museu Nacional d'Art de Catalunya, created in 1942, the year of his death. This work of art was created as a plaster cast, and then later casted in bronze. It is unclear if the when or if the artist casted the final sculpture. Other sculptures created within the last months of the artist's life were casted in bronze posthumous. For example, the other monumental sculpture created in this period, Head of the Montserrat, II, was casted in bronze after the artist's death.. 
The Mill. Author Name: Sir Edward Burne-Jones, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Aestheticism. . The Mill is an Aesthetic Movement, Renaissance-inspired oil on canvas painting completed by Edward Burne-Jones in 1882. It is a mysterious painting with no particular meaning. The painting's main feature is three women dancing in front of a mill pond on a summer evening, with a vague wooded landscape spanning the background. The Mill is currently in the Victoria and Albert Museum.. The Mill is an Aesthetic Movement, Renaissance-inspired oil on canvas painting completed by Edward Burne-Jones in 1882. It is a mysterious painting with no particular meaning. The painting's main feature is three women dancing in front of a mill pond on a summer evening, with a vague wooded landscape spanning the background. The Mill is currently in the Victoria and Albert Museum.. 
The Coronation of Charlemagne. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Coronation of Charlemagne is a painting by the workshop of the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael. Though it is believed that Raphael did make the designs for the composition, the fresco was probably painted by Gianfrancesco Penni. The painting was part of Raphael's commission to decorate the rooms that are now known as the Stanze di Raffaello, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. It is located in the room that was named after The Fire in the Borgo, the Stanza dell'incendio del Borgo. The painting shows how Charlemagne was crowned Imperator Romanorum by Pope Leo III (pontiff from 795 to 816) on Christmas Evening, 800. It is quite likely that the fresco refers to the Concordat of Bologna, negotiated between the Holy See and the kingdom of France in 1515, since Leo III is in fact a po. The Coronation of Charlemagne is a painting by the workshop of the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael. Though it is believed that Raphael did make the designs for the composition, the fresco was probably painted by Gianfrancesco Penni. The painting was part of Raphael's commission to decorate the rooms that are now known as the Stanze di Raffaello, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. It is located in the room that was named after The Fire in the Borgo, the Stanza dell'incendio del Borgo. The painting shows how Charlemagne was crowned Imperator Romanorum by Pope Leo III (pontiff from 795 to 816) on Christmas Evening, 800. It is quite likely that the fresco refers to the Concordat of Bologna, negotiated between the Holy See and the kingdom of France in 1515, since Leo III is in fact a portrait of Leo X and Charlemagne a portrait of Francis I.. 
Over the Top to Victory. Author Name: John Paulding. . . Over the Top to Victory, also known as Doughboy Statue and Their Country's Call Answered, is an outdoor bronze sculpture by John Paulding, formerly located at the Marion County Courthouse in Salem, Oregon, United States. The statue was commissioned by the American War Mothers and the Gold Star Mothers Club to commemorate the 87 men and one woman from Marion County who died in World War I.. Over the Top to Victory, also known as Doughboy Statue and Their Country's Call Answered, is an outdoor bronze sculpture by John Paulding, formerly located at the Marion County Courthouse in Salem, Oregon, United States. The statue was commissioned by the American War Mothers and the Gold Star Mothers Club to commemorate the 87 men and one woman from Marion County who died in World War I.. 
Lost on the Grand Banks. Author Name: Winslow Homer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Lost on the Grand Banks (1885) is one of several paintings by the American painter Winslow Homer (1836–1910) on marine subjects. Together with The Herring Net and The Fog Warning, painted the same year, it depicts the hard lives of North Atlantic fishermen in Prouts Neck, Maine.The painting was bought in 1998 by Bill Gates, the then chairman of Microsoft. Gates reportedly paid $30 million for the seascape. At the time a record price for an American painting.. Lost on the Grand Banks (1885) is one of several paintings by the American painter Winslow Homer (1836–1910) on marine subjects. Together with The Herring Net and The Fog Warning, painted the same year, it depicts the hard lives of North Atlantic fishermen in Prouts Neck, Maine. The painting was bought in 1998 by Bill Gates, the then chairman of Microsoft. Gates reportedly paid $30 million for the seascape. At the time a record price for an American painting.. 
Green Car Crash. Author Name: Andy Warhol. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Green Car Crash (Green Burning Car I) is a painting by the American artist Andy Warhol. In May 16, 2007 at 7 P.M, it sold for $71.7m (£42.3m) at auction.. Green Car Crash (Green Burning Car I) is a painting by the American artist Andy Warhol. In May 16, 2007 at 7 P.M, it sold for $71.7m (£42.3m) at auction.. 
Landscape with a Church at Twilight. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Landscape with a Church at Twilight is an oil painting created in 1883 by Vincent van Gogh.. Landscape with a Church at Twilight is an oil painting created in 1883 by Vincent van Gogh.. 
People's Bike Library of Portland. Author Name: Renwick, Vanessa. . . People's Bike Library of Portland, also known as Zoobomb Pyle or simply "the pile", is a 2009 steel and gold leaf sculpture by local artists Brian Borrello and Vanessa Renwick, located in Portland, Oregon, in the United States. It was erected in collaboration with Zoobomb and serves as a bicycle parking rack, a "lending library" for weekly bike riders, and a monument to the city's bike culture. The sculpture features a two-story spiral pillar with a bicycle on top; bicycles intended for Zoobomb riders are locked to the pillar and base, which has metal loops which act as hooks.. People's Bike Library of Portland, also known as Zoobomb Pyle or simply "the pile", is a 2009 steel and gold leaf sculpture by local artists Brian Borrello and Vanessa Renwick, located in Portland, Oregon, in the United States. It was erected in collaboration with Zoobomb and serves as a bicycle parking rack, a "lending library" for weekly bike riders, and a monument to the city's bike culture. The sculpture features a two-story spiral pillar with a bicycle on top; bicycles intended for Zoobomb riders are locked to the pillar and base, which has metal loops which act as hooks. The sculpture is part of the City of Portland and Multnomah County Public Art Collection courtesy of the Regional Arts & Culture Council, which commissioned the work with funds from the Portland Department of Transportation. According to BikePortland.org, Mayor Sam Adams helped make the sculpture possible though his "Art on the Streets" program, a collaboration between the Bureau of Transportation and the Regional Arts & Culture Council.. 
Untitled. Author Name: Sir Van Morrison. . . Untitled is an outdoor 1977 painted aluminum sculpture by Ivan Morrison, located at Southwest 5th Avenue and Southwest Oak Street in the Transit Mall of Portland, Oregon.. Untitled is an outdoor 1977 painted aluminum sculpture by Ivan Morrison, located at Southwest 5th Avenue and Southwest Oak Street in the Transit Mall of Portland, Oregon.. 
Fez. Author Name: Frank Stella. . Author Movement: Modernism, Minimal art, Abstract expressionism, Geometric abstraction, Abstract Illusionism, Lyrical abstraction, Hard-edge painting, Shaped canvas painting, Color field painting. . Fez is a 1964 painting by the modern artist Frank Stella. Multiple editions of the work exist, with one additionally in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art in New York.. Fez is a 1964 painting by the modern artist Frank Stella. Multiple editions of the work exist, with one additionally in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art in New York.. 
Guernica. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Guernica is a mural-sized oil painting on canvas by Spanish artist Pablo Picasso completed by June 1937. The painting, which uses a palette of gray, black, and white, is regarded by many art critics as one of the most moving and powerful anti-war paintings in history. Standing at 3.49 metres (11 ft 5 in) tall and 7.76 metres (25 ft 6 in) wide, the large mural shows the suffering of people, animals, and buildings wrenched by violence and chaos.. Guernica is a mural-sized oil painting on canvas by Spanish artist Pablo Picasso completed by June 1937. The painting, which uses a palette of gray, black, and white, is regarded by many art critics as one of the most moving and powerful anti-war paintings in history. Standing at 3.49 metres (11 ft 5 in) tall and 7.76 metres (25 ft 6 in) wide, the large mural shows the suffering of people, animals, and buildings wrenched by violence and chaos. The painting is believed to be a response to the bombing of Guernica, a Basque Country village in northern Spain, by German and Italian warplanes at the request of the Spanish Nationalists. Upon completion, Guernica was displayed around the world in a brief tour, becoming famous and widely acclaimed, and believed to have helped bring worldwide attention to the Spanish Civil War.. 
David. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . David is a life-size marble sculpture by Gian Lorenzo Bernini. The sculpture was one of many commissions to decorate the villa of Bernini's patron Cardinal Scipione Borghese – where it still resides today, as part of the Galleria Borghese It was completed in the course of seven months from 1623 to 1624.. David is a life-size marble sculpture by Gian Lorenzo Bernini. The sculpture was one of many commissions to decorate the villa of Bernini's patron Cardinal Scipione Borghese – where it still resides today, as part of the Galleria Borghese It was completed in the course of seven months from 1623 to 1624. The subject of the work is the biblical David, about to throw the stone that will bring down Goliath, which will allow David to behead him. Compared to earlier works on the same theme (notably the David of Michelangelo), the sculpture broke new ground in its implied movement and its psychological intensity.. 
View of the Asylum and Chapel of Saint-Rémy. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . View of the Asylum and Chapel of Saint-Rémy is an oil on canvas painting by Vincent van Gogh that he painted in autumn 1889 at Saint-Rémy, France, where he had voluntarily incarcerated himself in a lunatic asylum.The painting was originally thought to be a view of the church at Labbeville, near Auvers, where he moved following his stay at the asylum, but it is now accepted to be a view of the asylum and church at Saint-Rémy. It may have been among the 'autumn studies' mentioned in Vincent's letter to his brother Theo of 7 December 1989.. View of the Asylum and Chapel of Saint-Rémy is an oil on canvas painting by Vincent van Gogh that he painted in autumn 1889 at Saint-Rémy, France, where he had voluntarily incarcerated himself in a lunatic asylum. The painting was originally thought to be a view of the church at Labbeville, near Auvers, where he moved following his stay at the asylum, but it is now accepted to be a view of the asylum and church at Saint-Rémy. It may have been among the 'autumn studies' mentioned in Vincent's letter to his brother Theo of 7 December 1989. The painting was in the collection of the actress Elizabeth Taylor, on display in her living room, and was sold at auction in 2012 following her death for $15,991,575.. 
Portrait of a Young Man. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Portrait of a Young Man is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Sandro Botticelli, c. 1483. It is housed in the National Gallery of London.This was originally attributed to Giorgione, Filippino Lippi or Masaccio and is the only known en face portrait by Botticelli.. Portrait of a Young Man is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Sandro Botticelli, c. 1483. It is housed in the National Gallery of London. This was originally attributed to Giorgione, Filippino Lippi or Masaccio and is the only known en face portrait by Botticelli.. 
St. Jerome at Prayer. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . St. Jerome at Prayer is a painting of St. Jerome by Hieronymus Bosch, thought to have been completed c. 1482. Today it is housed at the Museum of Fine Arts in Ghent.. St. Jerome at Prayer is a painting of St. Jerome by Hieronymus Bosch, thought to have been completed c. 1482. Today it is housed at the Museum of Fine Arts in Ghent.. 
A Woman Holding a Balance. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . Woman Holding a Balance, also called Woman Testing a Balance, is an oil painting by Dutch Baroque artist Johannes Vermeer. At one time the painting, completed 1662–1663, was known as Woman Weighing Gold, but closer evaluation has determined that the balance in her hand is empty. Opinions on the theme and symbolism of the painting differ, with the woman alternatively viewed as a symbol of holiness or earthliness.. Woman Holding a Balance, also called Woman Testing a Balance, is an oil painting by Dutch Baroque artist Johannes Vermeer. At one time the painting, completed 1662–1663, was known as Woman Weighing Gold, but closer evaluation has determined that the balance in her hand is empty. Opinions on the theme and symbolism of the painting differ, with the woman alternatively viewed as a symbol of holiness or earthliness.. 
The Ironworkers' Noontime. Author Name: Thomas Anshutz. . . Ironworker's Noontime is an 1880 painting by the American painter Thomas Anshutz.The painting depicts several workers on their break in the yard of a foundry and is one of the most popular of Anshutz' paintings. Painted near Wheeling, West Virginia, it is conceived in a naturalistic style similar to that of Thomas Eakins, although Eakins never painted industrial subjects. The piece was exhibited at the Philadelphia Sketch Club in 1881 and compared to Eakin's work by art critics. Art historian Randall C. Griffin has written of it: "One of the first American paintings to depict the bleakness of factory life, The Ironworkers' Noontime appears to be a clear indictment of industrialization. Its brutal candor startled critics, who saw it as unexpectedly confrontational—a chilling industrial snap. Ironworker's Noontime is an 1880 painting by the American painter Thomas Anshutz. The painting depicts several workers on their break in the yard of a foundry and is one of the most popular of Anshutz' paintings. Painted near Wheeling, West Virginia, it is conceived in a naturalistic style similar to that of Thomas Eakins, although Eakins never painted industrial subjects. The piece was exhibited at the Philadelphia Sketch Club in 1881 and compared to Eakin's work by art critics. Art historian Randall C. Griffin has written of it: "One of the first American paintings to depict the bleakness of factory life, The Ironworkers' Noontime appears to be a clear indictment of industrialization. Its brutal candor startled critics, who saw it as unexpectedly confrontational—a chilling industrial snapshot not the least picturesque or sublime." It is now in the collection of the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco.. 
A Cotton Office in New Orleans. Author Name: Edgar Degas. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . A Cotton Office in New Orleans is an 1873 oil painting by Edgar Degas. In it, Degas depicts his uncle Michel Musson's cotton brokerage business (which several years later went bankrupt in an economic crash, according to Michael McMahon of the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette when the firm was swamped by the postwar growth of the much larger Cotton Exchange). In the painting, Musson is seen examining raw cotton for its quality while Degas' brother Rene reads The Daily Picayune. Another brother, Achille, rests against a window wall at left while others, including Musson's partners, go about their business.. A Cotton Office in New Orleans is an 1873 oil painting by Edgar Degas. In it, Degas depicts his uncle Michel Musson's cotton brokerage business (which several years later went bankrupt in an economic crash, according to Michael McMahon of the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette when the firm was swamped by the postwar growth of the much larger Cotton Exchange). In the painting, Musson is seen examining raw cotton for its quality while Degas' brother Rene reads The Daily Picayune. Another brother, Achille, rests against a window wall at left while others, including Musson's partners, go about their business. A Cotton Office in New Orleans was the first painting by Degas to be purchased by a museum, and the first by an Impressionist. Degas' sale of the piece marked a turning point in his career as he moved from being a struggling, unrecognized artist to a recognized and financially stable artist, according to Marilyn Brown in her book Degas and the Business of Art: A Cotton Office in New Orleans. Degas traveled from Europe to New Orleans in late 1872 with his brother, René, to visit his mother's brother, Michael Musson. After the American Civil War, René had joined his uncle's cotton business in New Orleans. Degas was to return to Europe in January 1873, but when his return trip was delayed, he was asked by his relatives to paint their portraits, and decided to show them as a group, at work in the family office. Degas crafted his work with the intent of selling it to a British textile manufacturer. But a drop in stock prices worldwide and declines in the cotton and art markets ended his hopes for that specific sale. Degas then exhibited A Cotton Office in New Orleans in the second Impressionist show in Paris in 1876. Degas finally sold the painting in 1878 to the newly founded Musee des Beaux-Arts in Pau, France. The painting is sometimes mistakenly referred to as The Cotton Exchange at New Orleans, referring to the historic New Orleans Cotton Exchange.. 
Turkish Slave. Author Name: Parmigianino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . Turkish Slave (Portrait of a Young Woman; Italian: Schiava turca) is a painting by the Italian Mannerist artist Parmigianino, executed around 1533. It is housed in the Galleria nazionale di Parma, northern Italy.The title of "Turkish Slave" derives from the misinterpretation of the sitter's headwear as a turban. It is in fact a typical headdress of noblewomen of the time, with examples appearing in numerous contemporary portraits.. Turkish Slave (Portrait of a Young Woman; Italian: Schiava turca) is a painting by the Italian Mannerist artist Parmigianino, executed around 1533. It is housed in the Galleria nazionale di Parma, northern Italy. The title of "Turkish Slave" derives from the misinterpretation of the sitter's headwear as a turban. It is in fact a typical headdress of noblewomen of the time, with examples appearing in numerous contemporary portraits.. 
Allegory of Intemperance. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . Allegory of Intemperance is a Hieronymus Bosch painting made sometime between 1490 and 1500. It is currently in the Yale University Art Gallery in New Haven, Connecticut.This panel is the left inside bottom wing of a hinged triptych. The other identified parts are the The Ship of Fools, which formed the upper left panel, and the Death and the Miser, which was the right panel; The Wayfarer was painted on the right panel rear. The central panel, if existed, is unknown.. Allegory of Intemperance is a Hieronymus Bosch painting made sometime between 1490 and 1500. It is currently in the Yale University Art Gallery in New Haven, Connecticut. This panel is the left inside bottom wing of a hinged triptych. The other identified parts are the The Ship of Fools, which formed the upper left panel, and the Death and the Miser, which was the right panel; The Wayfarer was painted on the right panel rear. The central panel, if existed, is unknown. The Allegory represented a condemnation of gluttony, in the same way the right panel condemned avarice. The fragment shows a fat man riding a barrel in a kind of lake or pool. He is surrounded by other people, who push him or pour a liquid from the barrel. Below, a man swims with, above his head, a vessel with meat. The swimmer's clothes lie on the shore at bottom. On the right, under a hut, a couple is devoting to lascivious acts, perhaps induced by drunkenness.. 
The Sermon of St. Stephen. Author Name: Vittore Carpaccio. . . The Sermon of Saint Stephen is an oil-on-canvas by Italian artist of the Venetian school Vittore Carpaccio, painted in 1514. It is now in the Louvre in Paris.. The Sermon of Saint Stephen is an oil-on-canvas by Italian artist of the Venetian school Vittore Carpaccio, painted in 1514. It is now in the Louvre in Paris.. 
Horace Greeley. Author Name: John Quincy Adams Ward. . . Horace Greeley is an outdoor bronze sculpture of Horace Greeley by artist John Quincy Adams Ward and architect Richard Morris Hunt, located in City Hall Park in Manhattan, New York. Cast in 1890 and dedicated in 1916, the seated statue is set on a Quincy granite pedestal.. Horace Greeley is an outdoor bronze sculpture of Horace Greeley by artist John Quincy Adams Ward and architect Richard Morris Hunt, located in City Hall Park in Manhattan, New York. Cast in 1890 and dedicated in 1916, the seated statue is set on a Quincy granite pedestal.. 
The Scream. Author Name: Edvard Munch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Expressionism. . The Scream (Norwegian: Skrik) is the popular name given to each of four versions of a composition, created as both paintings and pastels, by the Expressionist artist Edvard Munch between 1893 and 1910. The German title Munch gave these works is Der Schrei der Natur (The Scream of Nature). The works show a figure with an agonized expression against a landscape with a tumultuous orange sky. Arthur Lubow has described The Scream as "an icon of modern art, a Mona Lisa for our time.". The Scream (Norwegian: Skrik) is the popular name given to each of four versions of a composition, created as both paintings and pastels, by the Expressionist artist Edvard Munch between 1893 and 1910. The German title Munch gave these works is Der Schrei der Natur (The Scream of Nature). The works show a figure with an agonized expression against a landscape with a tumultuous orange sky. Arthur Lubow has described The Scream as "an icon of modern art, a Mona Lisa for our time." Edvard Munch created the four versions in various media. The National Gallery, Oslo, holds one of two painted versions (1893, shown here). The Munch Museum holds the other painted version (1910, see , below) and a pastel version from 1893. These three versions have not traveled for years. The fourth version (pastel, 1895) was sold for $119,922,600 at Sotheby's Impressionist and Modern Art auction on 2 May 2012 to financier Leon Black, the third highest nominal price paid for a painting at auction. The painting was on display in the Museum of Modern Art in New York from October 2012 to April 2013. Also in 1895, Munch created a lithograph stone of the image. Of the lithograph prints produced by Munch, several examples survive. Only approximately four dozen prints were made before the original stone was resurfaced by the printer in Munch's absence. The Scream has been the target of several high-profile art thefts. In 1994, the version in the National Gallery was stolen. It was recovered several months later. In 2004, both The Scream and Madonna were stolen from the Munch Museum, and were both recovered two years later.. 
The Funeral of the Anarchist Galli. Author Name: Carlo Carrà. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Futurism. . The Funeral of the Anarchist Galli (Il Funerale dell’anarchico Galli) is a painting by Italian painter Carlo Carrà. It was finished in 1911, during the artist's futurist phase. It currently resides in New York City's Museum of Modern Art.Carlo Carrà was present. His work embodies the tension and chaos of the scene: the movement of the bodies, the clashing of anarchists and police, the black flags flying in the air. He reflects in a later memoir:. The Funeral of the Anarchist Galli (Il Funerale dell’anarchico Galli) is a painting by Italian painter Carlo Carrà. It was finished in 1911, during the artist's futurist phase. It currently resides in New York City's Museum of Modern Art. The subject of the work is the funeral of Italian anarchist Angelo Galli, killed by police during a general strike in 1904. The Italian State feared that the funeral would become a de facto political demonstration and refused the mourning anarchists entrance into the cemetery itself. When anarchists resisted, the police responded with force and a violent scuffle ensued. Carlo Carrà was present. His work embodies the tension and chaos of the scene: the movement of the bodies, the clashing of anarchists and police, the black flags flying in the air. He reflects in a later memoir:. 
Chain Reaction. Author Name: Paul Conrad. . . Chain Reaction is a peace monument and public art sculpture composed of a metal framework of stainless steel and fiberglass surrounded by concrete, depicting a mushroom cloud created by a nuclear explosion. Designed by American editorial cartoonist Paul Conrad and built by Peter M. Carlson, the 5.5-ton, 8-meter (26-foot) high sculpture was installed in 1991 adjacent to the Santa Monica Civic Center in Santa Monica, California.. Chain Reaction is a peace monument and public art sculpture composed of a metal framework of stainless steel and fiberglass surrounded by concrete, depicting a mushroom cloud created by a nuclear explosion. Designed by American editorial cartoonist Paul Conrad and built by Peter M. Carlson, the 5.5-ton, 8-meter (26-foot) high sculpture was installed in 1991 adjacent to the Santa Monica Civic Center in Santa Monica, California. An inscription at the base of the sculpture reads, "This is a statement of peace. May it never become an epitaph." The theme of the sculpture reflects the subject of nuclear disarmament. UCLA professor Paul Von Blum places the sculpture in the category of late 20th and early 21st century contemporary American public political artwork in the tradition of commemorative works throughout the United States, calling the work "a powerful warning about the continuing dangers of nuclear war". Conrad first expressed interest in building the sculpture in either Beverly Hills or Santa Monica in 1988. He built the sculpture with the help of an anonymous donation of $250,000 and donated the sculpture to the city of Santa Monica after it was approved by the city. It was later revealed that the donation came from philanthropist Joan Kroc, widow of Ray Kroc, the founder of the McDonald's corporation. Joan Kroc spent millions campaigning for nuclear disarmament in the 1980s. In 2012, the sculpture became the first work of public art designated as a historic landmark in the City of Santa Monica.. 
Portrait of Kristóf Hegedűs. Author Name: Borsos, Jozsef. . . The Portrait of Kristóf Hegedűs is an 1844 painting by Hungarian painter Jozsef Borsos. It was one of his earliest works.The oil on canvas measures 126.5 x 82 cm and is currently on display at the Historical Picture Gallery section of the Hungarian National Museum, Budapest. The Portrait of Kristóf Hegedűs is an 1844 painting by Hungarian painter Jozsef Borsos. It was one of his earliest works. The oil on canvas measures 126.5 x 82 cm and is currently on display at the Historical Picture Gallery section of the Hungarian National Museum, Budapest. 
Netherlandish Proverbs. Author Name: Pieter Bruegel the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_and_Flemish_Renaissance_painting. . Netherlandish Proverbs (Dutch: Nederlandse Spreekwoorden; also called Flemish Proverbs, The Blue Cloak or The Topsy Turvy World) is a 1559 oil-on-oak-panel painting by the Flemish artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder that depicts a scene in which humans and, to a lesser extent, animals and objects, offer literal illustrations of Dutch language proverbs and idioms.. Netherlandish Proverbs (Dutch: Nederlandse Spreekwoorden; also called Flemish Proverbs, The Blue Cloak or The Topsy Turvy World) is a 1559 oil-on-oak-panel painting by the Flemish artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder that depicts a scene in which humans and, to a lesser extent, animals and objects, offer literal illustrations of Dutch language proverbs and idioms. Running themes in Bruegel's paintings are the absurdity, wickedness and foolishness of humans, and this is no exception. The painting's original title, The Blue Cloak or The Folly of the World, indicates that Bruegel's intent was not just to illustrate proverbs, but rather to catalog human folly. Many of the people depicted show the characteristic blank features that Bruegel used to portray fools. His son, Pieter Brueghel the Younger, specialised in making copies of his father's work and painted at least 16 copies of Netherlandish Proverbs. Not all versions of the painting, by father or son, show exactly the same proverbs and they also differ in other minor details.. 
Twittering Machine. Author Name: Paul Klee. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Bauhaus. . Twittering Machine (Die Zwitscher-Maschine) is a 1922 watercolor and pen and ink oil transfer on paper by Swiss-German painter Paul Klee. Like other artworks by Klee, it blends biology and machinery, depicting a loosely sketched group of birds on a wire or branch connected to a hand-crank. Interpretations of the work vary widely: it has been perceived as a nightmarish lure for the viewer or a depiction of the helplessness of the artist, but also as a triumph of nature over mechanical pursuits. It has been seen as a visual representation of the mechanics of sound.. Twittering Machine (Die Zwitscher-Maschine) is a 1922 watercolor and pen and ink oil transfer on paper by Swiss-German painter Paul Klee. Like other artworks by Klee, it blends biology and machinery, depicting a loosely sketched group of birds on a wire or branch connected to a hand-crank. Interpretations of the work vary widely: it has been perceived as a nightmarish lure for the viewer or a depiction of the helplessness of the artist, but also as a triumph of nature over mechanical pursuits. It has been seen as a visual representation of the mechanics of sound. Originally displayed in Germany, the image was declared "degenerate art" by Adolf Hitler in 1933 and sold by the Nazi party to an art dealer in 1939, whence it made its way to New York. One of the better known of more than 9,000 works produced by Klee, it is among the more famous images of the New York Museum of Modern Art (MoMA). It has inspired several musical compositions and, according to a 1987 magazine profile in New York Magazine, has been a popular piece to hang in children's bedrooms.. 
The Hallucinogenic Toreador. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The Hallucinogenic Toreador (1968–1970) is an oil painting. Salvador Dalí painted it in 1970, following the canons of his particular interpretation of surrealist thought. It is currently being exhibited at the Salvador Dalí Museum in St. Petersburg, Florida. In this piece, Dalí transmits his wife's dislike for bullfighting. By combining symbolism with optical illusions and estranging yet familiar motifs, he creates his own visual language. His application of the paranoiac-critical method within this painting combines versatile images as an instructive example of his artistic creation.. The Hallucinogenic Toreador (1968–1970) is an oil painting. Salvador Dalí painted it in 1970, following the canons of his particular interpretation of surrealist thought. It is currently being exhibited at the Salvador Dalí Museum in St. Petersburg, Florida. In this piece, Dalí transmits his wife's dislike for bullfighting. By combining symbolism with optical illusions and estranging yet familiar motifs, he creates his own visual language. His application of the paranoiac-critical method within this painting combines versatile images as an instructive example of his artistic creation.. 
L'Enfant a la tasse. Author Name: Claude Monet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . L'Enfant a la tasse or L'Enfant a la tasse, portrait de Jean Monet is an oil painting by Impressionist Claude Monet created in 1868. The painting – which features Monet's son Jean sitting next to a white and blue striped cup – is Monet's third painting to feature his son.. L'Enfant a la tasse or L'Enfant a la tasse, portrait de Jean Monet is an oil painting by Impressionist Claude Monet created in 1868. The painting – which features Monet's son Jean sitting next to a white and blue striped cup – is Monet's third painting to feature his son.. 
Skating on Duddingston Loch. Author Name: Sir Henry Raeburn. . . The Reverend Robert Walker Skating on Duddingston Loch, better known by its shorter title The Skating Minister, is an oil painting allegedly by Sir Henry Raeburn in the National Gallery of Scotland in Edinburgh. It was practically unknown until about 1949, but has since become one of Scotland's best-known paintings. It is considered an icon of Scottish culture, painted during one of the most remarkable periods in the country's history, the Scottish Enlightenment.. The Reverend Robert Walker Skating on Duddingston Loch, better known by its shorter title The Skating Minister, is an oil painting allegedly by Sir Henry Raeburn in the National Gallery of Scotland in Edinburgh. It was practically unknown until about 1949, but has since become one of Scotland's best-known paintings. It is considered an icon of Scottish culture, painted during one of the most remarkable periods in the country's history, the Scottish Enlightenment.. 
The Bench. Author Name: William  Hogarth. . . The Bench is the title of both a 1758 oil-on-canvas painting by the English artist William Hogarth, and a print issued by him in the same year. Unlike many of Hogarth's engravings produced from painted originals, the print differs considerably from the painting. It was intended as a demonstration of the differences between character painting, caricature and outré—developing on the theme he had begun to address in Characters and Caricaturas (his subscription ticket for Marriage à-la-mode)—but Hogarth was unhappy with the result as it showed only "characters", and he continued to work on the piece until his death.. The Bench is the title of both a 1758 oil-on-canvas painting by the English artist William Hogarth, and a print issued by him in the same year. Unlike many of Hogarth's engravings produced from painted originals, the print differs considerably from the painting. It was intended as a demonstration of the differences between character painting, caricature and outré—developing on the theme he had begun to address in Characters and Caricaturas (his subscription ticket for Marriage à-la-mode)—but Hogarth was unhappy with the result as it showed only "characters", and he continued to work on the piece until his death.. 
Ethel Scull 36 Times. Author Name: Andy Warhol. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Ethel Scull 36 Times is a 1963 painting by American artist Andy Warhol, currently in the collection of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. It was Warhol's first commissioned work. The work consists of four rows of nine equal columns, depicting Ethel Redner Scull, a well-known collector of modern art. The artwork is jointly owned by the Whitney Museum of American Art and the Metropolitan Museum of Art.. Ethel Scull 36 Times is a 1963 painting by American artist Andy Warhol, currently in the collection of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. It was Warhol's first commissioned work. The work consists of four rows of nine equal columns, depicting Ethel Redner Scull, a well-known collector of modern art. The artwork is jointly owned by the Whitney Museum of American Art and the Metropolitan Museum of Art.. 
Lady Elizabeth Delmé and Her Children. Author Name: Sir Joshua Reynolds. . . Lady Elizabeth Delmé and Her Children (1779) is an oil on canvas portrait by Joshua Reynolds. It was given to the National Gallery of Art in 1937. The NGA describes the work as a "majestic group portrait".In Grand Manner fashion, Reynolds alluded to the Madonnas of Raphael (such as the Madonna of the Goldfinch and the Madonna of the Meadow) in the triangular configuration of the sitters and alluded as well to the art of Rembrandt and Titian in the browns of the background. Reynolds was paid three hundred pounds for the work in 1780, and touched up and revarnished the picture in 1789.. Lady Elizabeth Delmé and Her Children (1779) is an oil on canvas portrait by Joshua Reynolds. It was given to the National Gallery of Art in 1937. The NGA describes the work as a "majestic group portrait". Lady Elizabeth (Howard) Delmé was the third daughter of the 4th Earl of Carlisle, and sat for Reynolds with her children John and Isabella Elizabeth in April and June of 1777. Reynolds was the chief proponent of the Grand Manner, and, as the NGA points out, the two years involved in completing the portrait would have aged the children noticeably. "But Reynolds worked from abstract principles of design rather than observation of nature," the NGA writes, "One of his conceptions for Grand Manner likenesses was: Each person should have the expression which men of his rank generally exhibit. Reynolds therefore suppressed psychological individuality to gain a grandeur appropriate for these aristocrats." In Grand Manner fashion, Reynolds alluded to the Madonnas of Raphael (such as the Madonna of the Goldfinch and the Madonna of the Meadow) in the triangular configuration of the sitters and alluded as well to the art of Rembrandt and Titian in the browns of the background. Reynolds was paid three hundred pounds for the work in 1780, and touched up and revarnished the picture in 1789. Cynthia Saltzman writes in Old Masters, New Worlds (2009) that "Lady Delmé has a long, elegant face, heavy-lidded eyes, and towering powdered hair. She wears a white dress and a cloak that covers her knees in a cascade of rose-colored satin that speaks both to her beauty and to the luxury at her command." Saltzman notes that Lady Delmé is one of the finest representatives of Reynolds's intent to raise portraiture to the level of history painting. English portraiture of the period "flattered the sitter", Saltzman explains, by depicting the sitter as a member of a powerful ruling class whose very existence made the world a better place.. 
Bratatat!. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Bratatat! is a 1963 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein in his comic book style of using Ben-Day dots and a text balloon.. Bratatat! is a 1963 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein in his comic book style of using Ben-Day dots and a text balloon.. 
The Yellow Crucifixion. Author Name: Marc Chagall. . Author Movement: *. . The Yellow Crucifixion is a painting by Marc Chagall. It was painted in 1943 and is on display at Musée National d'Art Moderne in Paris, France.. The Yellow Crucifixion is a painting by Marc Chagall. It was painted in 1943 and is on display at Musée National d'Art Moderne in Paris, France.. 
His Majesty the King. Author Name: Joan Miró. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . His Majesty the King is a sculpture-object made by Joan Miró in 1974 and now part of the permanent collection of the Fundació Joan Miró in Barcelona.. His Majesty the King is a sculpture-object made by Joan Miró in 1974 and now part of the permanent collection of the Fundació Joan Miró in Barcelona.. 
Woman with animals. Author Name: Albert Gleizes. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_art. . Woman with animals, originally referred to as La dame aux bêtes and Portrait de Mme D.V. or Madame Raymond Duchamp-Villon, is a painting created late 1913 and completed during the month of February, 1914, by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes. The painting was exhibited at the Salon des Indépendants, Paris, 1 March – 30 April 1914 (titled Portrait de Mme D.V.). Woman with animals is executed in a personal Cubist style noted by the fusing background and figure, the multiple perspective or successive views at various moments in time of the Mrs. Duchamp-Villon's face and other elements, the freestyle brushstrokes delineating juxtaposing planes. The work was restored in 1940 by Jacques Villon and Robert Delaunay. Formerly in the collection of Marcel Duchamp, the work—along w. Woman with animals, originally referred to as La dame aux bêtes and Portrait de Mme D.V. or Madame Raymond Duchamp-Villon, is a painting created late 1913 and completed during the month of February, 1914, by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes. The painting was exhibited at the Salon des Indépendants, Paris, 1 March – 30 April 1914 (titled Portrait de Mme D.V.). Woman with animals is executed in a personal Cubist style noted by the fusing background and figure, the multiple perspective or successive views at various moments in time of the Mrs. Duchamp-Villon's face and other elements, the freestyle brushstrokes delineating juxtaposing planes. The work was restored in 1940 by Jacques Villon and Robert Delaunay. Formerly in the collection of Marcel Duchamp, the work—along with a 1913 lavis and gouache study of the same subject entitled La femme aux bêtes—has been in the Peggy Guggenheim Collection, Venice, Italy, since 1940.. 
Bords de la Marne. Author Name: Albert Gleizes. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_art. . Bords de la Marne, also called Les Bords de la Marne and The Banks of the Marne, is a proto-Cubist oil painting on canvas created in 1909 by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes. In this work can be seen a departure from the representation of the observable world. The subject is treated neither as a confined symbolic allegory nor as a cultural background indicated by specific real appearance, but is instead presented in concrete and precise geometric terms. The development of Cubist and abstract art in the work of Gleizes was necessarily a transformation from the synthetic preoccupation with his subject matter. The passage of Gleizes' painting from an epic visionary figuration to total abstraction was foreshadowed during his proto-Cubist period. Bords de la Marne measures . Bords de la Marne, also called Les Bords de la Marne and The Banks of the Marne, is a proto-Cubist oil painting on canvas created in 1909 by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes. In this work can be seen a departure from the representation of the observable world. The subject is treated neither as a confined symbolic allegory nor as a cultural background indicated by specific real appearance, but is instead presented in concrete and precise geometric terms. The development of Cubist and abstract art in the work of Gleizes was necessarily a transformation from the synthetic preoccupation with his subject matter. The passage of Gleizes' painting from an epic visionary figuration to total abstraction was foreshadowed during his proto-Cubist period. Bords de la Marne measures 54 × 65 cm, and is currently in the permanent collection of the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Lyon.. 
The Triumph of Galatea. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Triumph of Galatea is a fresco completed about 1514 by the Italian painter Raphael for the Villa Farnesina in Rome.The Farnesina was built for the Sienese banker Agostino Chigi, one of the richest men of that age. The Farnese family later acquired and renamed the villa, smaller than the more ostentatious palazzo at the other side of the Tiber. The fresco is a mythological scene of a series embellishing the open gallery of the building, a series never completed which was inspired to the "Stanze per la giostra" of the poet Angelo Poliziano. In Greek mythology, the beautiful Nereid Galatea had fallen in love with the peasant shepherd Acis. Her consort, one-eyed giant Polyphemus, after chancing upon the two lovers together, lobbed an enormous pillar and killed Acis.. The Triumph of Galatea is a fresco completed about 1514 by the Italian painter Raphael for the Villa Farnesina in Rome. The Farnesina was built for the Sienese banker Agostino Chigi, one of the richest men of that age. The Farnese family later acquired and renamed the villa, smaller than the more ostentatious palazzo at the other side of the Tiber. The fresco is a mythological scene of a series embellishing the open gallery of the building, a series never completed which was inspired to the "Stanze per la giostra" of the poet Angelo Poliziano. In Greek mythology, the beautiful Nereid Galatea had fallen in love with the peasant shepherd Acis. Her consort, one-eyed giant Polyphemus, after chancing upon the two lovers together, lobbed an enormous pillar and killed Acis. Raphael did not paint any of the main events of the story. He chose the scene of the nymph's apotheosis (Stanze, I, 118-119). Galatea appears surrounded by other sea creatures whose forms are somewhat inspired by Michelangelo[citation needed], whereas the bright colors and decoration are supposed to be inspired by ancient Roman painting. At the left, a Triton (partly man, partly fish) abducts a sea nymph; behind them, another Triton uses a shell as a trumpet. Galatea rides a shell-chariot drawn by two dolphins. While some have seen in the model for Galatea the image of the courtesan, Imperia, Agostino Chigi's lover and Raphael's near-contemporary, Giorgio Vasari wrote that Raphael did not mean for Galatea to resemble any one human person, but to represent ideal beauty.[citation needed] When asked where he had found a model of such beauty, Raphael reportedly said that he had used "a certain idea" he had formed in his mind.. 
Portrait of Lorenzo di Credi. Author Name: Pietro Perugino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Lorenzo di Credi is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Perugino, dating to around 1504 and housed in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, DC, United States.. The Portrait of Lorenzo di Credi is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Perugino, dating to around 1504 and housed in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, DC, United States.. 
The Flageolet Player on the Cliff. Author Name: Paul Gauguin. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . The Flageolet Player on the Cliff is an 1889 oil painting by French artist Paul Gauguin, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It depicts a Breton couple on a narrow path precipitously overlooking the Atlantic.. The Flageolet Player on the Cliff is an 1889 oil painting by French artist Paul Gauguin, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It depicts a Breton couple on a narrow path precipitously overlooking the Atlantic.. 
Groupe de femmes. Author Name: Joseph Csaky. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_art. . Groupe de femmes, also called Groupe de trois femmes, or Groupe de trois personnages, is an early Cubist sculpture created circa 1911 by the Hungarian avant-garde, sculptor, and graphic artist Joseph Csaky (1888–1971). This sculpture formerly known from a black and white photograph (Galerie René Reichard) had been erroneously entitled Deux Femmes (Two Women), as the image captured on an angle showed only two figures. An additional photograph found in the Csaky family archives shows a frontal view of the work, revealing three figures rather than two. Csaky's sculpture was exhibited at the 1912 Salon d'Automne, and the 1913 Salon des Indépendants, Paris. A photograph taken of Salle XI in sitiu at the 1912 Salon d'Automne and published in L'Illustration, 12 October 1912, p. 47, shows Groupe d. Groupe de femmes, also called Groupe de trois femmes, or Groupe de trois personnages, is an early Cubist sculpture created circa 1911 by the Hungarian avant-garde, sculptor, and graphic artist Joseph Csaky (1888–1971). This sculpture formerly known from a black and white photograph (Galerie René Reichard) had been erroneously entitled Deux Femmes (Two Women), as the image captured on an angle showed only two figures. An additional photograph found in the Csaky family archives shows a frontal view of the work, revealing three figures rather than two. Csaky's sculpture was exhibited at the 1912 Salon d'Automne, and the 1913 Salon des Indépendants, Paris. A photograph taken of Salle XI in sitiu at the 1912 Salon d'Automne and published in L'Illustration, 12 October 1912, p. 47, shows Groupe de femmes exhibited alongside the works of Jean Metzinger, František Kupka, Francis Picabia, Amedeo Modigliani and Henri Le Fauconnier. At the 1913 Salon des Indépendants Groupe de femmes was exhibited in the company works by Fernand Léger, Jean Metzinger, Robert Delaunay, André Lhote, Raymond Duchamp-Villon, Jacques Villon and Wassily Kandinsky. The whereabouts of Groupe de femmes is unknown and the sculpture is presumed to have been destroyed.. 
The Theatre Box. Author Name: Pierre-Auguste Renoir. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . La Loge (The Theatre Box) is an 1874 oil painting by Pierre-Auguste Renoir. It is part of the collection at Courtauld Institute of Art in London.. La Loge (The Theatre Box) is an 1874 oil painting by Pierre-Auguste Renoir. It is part of the collection at Courtauld Institute of Art in London.. 
The Mystical Nativity. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Mystical Nativity is a painting of circa 1500–1501 by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli, in the National Gallery in London. Botticelli built up the image using oil on canvas. It is his only signed work, and has an unusual iconography for a Nativity.. The Mystical Nativity is a painting of circa 1500–1501 by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli, in the National Gallery in London. Botticelli built up the image using oil on canvas. It is his only signed work, and has an unusual iconography for a Nativity. The Greek inscription at the top translates as: "This picture, at the end of the year 1500, in the troubles of Italy, I Alessandro, in the half-time after the time, painted, according to the eleventh [chapter] of Saint John, in the second woe of the Apocalypse, during the release of the devil for three-and-a-half years; then he shall be bound in the twelfth [chapter] and we shall see [him buried] as in this picture". Botticelli believed himself to be living during the Tribulation, possibly due to the upheavals in Europe at the time, and was predicting Christ's Millennium as stated in Biblical text. It has been suggested that the painting may be connected with the influence of Savonarola, whose influence appears in a number of late paintings by Botticelli, though the contents of the image may have been specified by the person commissioning it. The painting uses the medieval convention of showing the Virgin Mary and infant Jesus larger both than other figures, and their surroundings; this was certainly done deliberately for effect, as earlier Botticellis use correct graphical perspective.. 
Old Vineyard with Peasant Woman. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Old Vineyard with Peasant Woman is a drawing by Vincent van Gogh that he made in May 1890 when he lived in Auvers-sur-Oise, France.Van Gogh spent the last few months of his life in Auvers-sur-Oise, a small town just north of Paris, after he left the asylum in Saint-Rémy in May 1890.The drawing is in the collection of the Van Gogh Museum, Amsterdam.. Old Vineyard with Peasant Woman is a drawing by Vincent van Gogh that he made in May 1890 when he lived in Auvers-sur-Oise, France. Van Gogh spent the last few months of his life in Auvers-sur-Oise, a small town just north of Paris, after he left the asylum in Saint-Rémy in May 1890. Old Vineyard with Peasant Woman is the drawing he mentions in his letter of 25 May 1890 to his brother Theo and wife Jo shortly after arriving in Auvers, in which he says he plans to paint a large no. 30 canvas from it. However, there is no known no. 30 canvas of this scene, although the same house and garden appear in The House of Pere Eloi. The drawing is washed in diluted oils and watercolour, predominantly in violet tones (in his preceding letter to Theo and Jo he says he saw violets more often following his return from the south). A red roof provides a contrasting accent in the manner he had learned from Delacroix in his early 1887 Paris days and repeated in some of the still lifes he made in Saint-Rémy. The drawing is in the collection of the Van Gogh Museum, Amsterdam.. 
The Large Horse. Author Name: Raymond Duchamp-Villon. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The Large Horse (French: Le Grand cheval) is a 1914-31 bronze sculpture by French artist Raymond Duchamp-Villon, installed at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston's (MFAH) Lillie and Hugh Roy Cullen Sculpture Garden in Houston, Texas, in the United States.. The Large Horse (French: Le Grand cheval) is a 1914-31 bronze sculpture by French artist Raymond Duchamp-Villon, installed at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston's (MFAH) Lillie and Hugh Roy Cullen Sculpture Garden in Houston, Texas, in the United States.. 
Elegy III. Author Name: Dame Barbara Hepworth. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_art. . Elegy III is an abstract bronze sculpture, by Barbara Hepworth.It is an edition of six.Examples are located at the Kröller-Müller Museum, and Franklin D. Murphy Sculpture Garden, University of California, Los Angeles.. Elegy III is an abstract bronze sculpture, by Barbara Hepworth. It is an edition of six. Examples are located at the Kröller-Müller Museum, and Franklin D. Murphy Sculpture Garden, University of California, Los Angeles.. 
Sorrowing Old Man. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Sorrowing Old Man (At Eternity's Gate) is an oil painting by Vincent van Gogh  that he made in 1890 in Saint-Rémy de Provence based on an early lithograph. The painting was completed in early May at a time when he was convalescing from a severe relapse in his health and some two months before his death, generally accepted as a suicide.In the 1970 catalogue raisonné, it is given the title Worn Out: At Eternity's Gate.. Sorrowing Old Man (At Eternity's Gate) is an oil painting by Vincent van Gogh that he made in 1890 in Saint-Rémy de Provence based on an early lithograph. The painting was completed in early May at a time when he was convalescing from a severe relapse in his health and some two months before his death, generally accepted as a suicide. In the 1970 catalogue raisonné, it is given the title Worn Out: At Eternity's Gate. The lithograph was based on a pencil drawing Worn Out, one of a series of studies he made in 1882 of a pensioner and war veteran, Adrianus Jacobus Zuyderland, at a local almshouse in The Hague and itself a reworking of a drawing and watercolor he had made the previous year. The inspiration for Worn Out was Hubert von Herkomer's Sunday at the Chelsea Hospital, an immensely popular print depicting an old war veteran slumped dead that went on to become an acclaimed painting at the Royal Academy, The Last Muster, that van Gogh had seen in 1875 when in England. Van Gogh wrote of his drawing:Van Gogh's first attempt at the lithograph followed just two days later. He wrote: Later, in a rare expression of his own religious feelings, he wrote expressly about this lithograph and two other drawings also posed by Zuyderland, of an old man reading a Bible and saying grace () respectively: Writing about At Eternity's Gate in 1998, the American theologian Kathleen Powers Erickson remarked: Seven impressions of the lithograph are known, of which one is annotated At Eternity's Gate. The same theme is taken up again in two later 1883 studies of a seated woman.. 
Interior of the Mechanics' Institute. Author Name: Rayner, Samuel. . . The Derby Exhibition of 1839 was the first exhibition in Derby. It was held at the town's Mechanics' Institute, which later became known as Albert Hall. The exhibition was in line with the founding values of the Institute, which were to extend the spread of knowledge among the people of Derby. The institute had organized a wide range of events since 1825, including lectures, concerts, and displays. The exhibition followed the first such organised by Manchester Mechanics Institute in 1837 and Derby's was one of several that were organised that year in English industrial towns and cities. Derby's exhibition had a profound impact and was one of the factors leading to the foundation of the Museum and Library in 1878. Derby Museum and Art Gallery, which is next door to what was the Mechanics In. The Derby Exhibition of 1839 was the first exhibition in Derby. It was held at the town's Mechanics' Institute, which later became known as Albert Hall. The exhibition was in line with the founding values of the Institute, which were to extend the spread of knowledge among the people of Derby. The institute had organized a wide range of events since 1825, including lectures, concerts, and displays. The exhibition followed the first such organised by Manchester Mechanics Institute in 1837 and Derby's was one of several that were organised that year in English industrial towns and cities. Derby's exhibition had a profound impact and was one of the factors leading to the foundation of the Museum and Library in 1878. Derby Museum and Art Gallery, which is next door to what was the Mechanics Institute building, now holds many of the objects from the exhibition. The exhibition was organised to pay for a lecture hall which had just been added in 1837 to the Derby Mechanic's institute premises in the Wardwick. Although these organisations were called Mechanic's Institutes they were funded and organised by dignitaries and not by mechanics. The exhibition attracted over 96,000 people and Derby's institute as a result was placed on a good financial basis. The exhibition is the subject matter of Interior of the Mechanics' Institute, a hand coloured lithograph print from a drawing by Samuel Rayner. This print shows the Lecture Hall, which was the main hall of the Institute. The hall was described at the time as "in the Grecian style... with a handsome chandelier ...and many valuable paintings". Around the top of the room is a frieze similar to work by John Henning. Over one thousand objects were displayed there including many that belonged to the philanthropist Joseph Strutt. The exhibits to a variety of categories: paintings by Joseph Wright (Romeo and Juliet can be seen on display on the far wall, towards the left), scientific instruments, fossils, a coconut... The Derby exhibition was admired by the mechanics institutes in nearby Leicester and Nottingham and both organised similar exhibitions the following year. They also were able to charter a train on the newly opened railway to carry their members on a railway excursion.. 
Nave Nave Mahana. Author Name: Paul Gauguin. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Nave Nave Mahana (Tahitian: Delicious day) was made in 1896 by Paul Gauguin in Tahiti. It is kept in the Museum of Fine Arts of Lyon. The painting became part of the collections of the Lyon Museum in 1913.. Nave Nave Mahana (Tahitian: Delicious day) was made in 1896 by Paul Gauguin in Tahiti. It is kept in the Museum of Fine Arts of Lyon. The painting became part of the collections of the Lyon Museum in 1913.. 
Apolinère Enameled. Author Name: Marcel Duchamp. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Conceptual_art. . Apolinère Enameled was painted c. 1916 by Marcel Duchamp, as a heavily altered version of an advertisement for paint ("Sapolin Enamel"). The picture depicts a girl painting a bed-frame with white enamelled paint. The depiction of the frame deliberately includes conflicting perspective lines, to produce an impossible object. To emphasise the deliberate impossibility of the shape, a piece of the frame is missing. The piece is sometimes referred to as Duchamp's "impossible bed" painting.. Apolinère Enameled was painted c. 1916 by Marcel Duchamp, as a heavily altered version of an advertisement for paint ("Sapolin Enamel"). The picture depicts a girl painting a bed-frame with white enamelled paint. The depiction of the frame deliberately includes conflicting perspective lines, to produce an impossible object. To emphasise the deliberate impossibility of the shape, a piece of the frame is missing. The piece is sometimes referred to as Duchamp's "impossible bed" painting.. 
Adoration of the Magi. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Adoration of the Magi is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli, dating from 1475 or 1476. It is housed in the Uffizi of Florence. Botticelli was commissioned to paint at least seven versions of The Adoration of the Magi.. The Adoration of the Magi is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli, dating from 1475 or 1476. It is housed in the Uffizi of Florence. Botticelli was commissioned to paint at least seven versions of The Adoration of the Magi. The Adoration of the Magi theme was popular in the Renaissance Florence. The work was commissioned by Gaspare di Zanobi del Lama, a banker of humble origins and dubious morality connected to the House of Medici, for his chapel in the church of Santa Maria Novella (now destroyed). In the scene are present numerous characters among which are several members of the Medici family: Cosimo de' Medici (the Magus kneeling in front of the Virgin, described by Vasari as "the finest of all that are now extant for its life and vigour"), his sons Piero (the second Magus kneeling in the centre with the red mantle) and Giovanni (the third Magus), and his grandsons Giuliano and Lorenzo. The three Medici portrayed as Magi were all dead at the time the picture was painted, and Florence was effectively ruled by Lorenzo. In his Lives Vasari describes the Adoration in the following way:Del Lama is portrayed as the old man on the right with white hair and a light blue robe looking and pointing at the observer. In the picture is also present Botticelli's alleged self-portrait, as the blond man with yellow mantle on the far right.The attention to details, such as the garments rendering, show the acquisition by the Florentine artist of the influences from the Flemish school at this point of his career.. 
Portrait of Dorothea Berck. Author Name: Frans Hals. . . Portrait of Dorothea Berck is a 1644 painting by Frans Hals that is in the collection of the Baltimore Museum of Art. It depicts Dorothea Berck at age 51, the wife of the prosperous Haarlem merchant Joseph Coymans, whose portrait Hals also painted. Both paintings were executed on the occasion of their daughter Isabella's wedding, whose marriage pendants Hals also painted.. Portrait of Dorothea Berck is a 1644 painting by Frans Hals that is in the collection of the Baltimore Museum of Art. It depicts Dorothea Berck at age 51, the wife of the prosperous Haarlem merchant Joseph Coymans, whose portrait Hals also painted. Both paintings were executed on the occasion of their daughter Isabella's wedding, whose marriage pendants Hals also painted. The painting, like many of Hals's portraits, is inscribed and signed, but there is no mention of the identity of the sitter, and it was only identified as Berck in 1908. The portrait is noted for its classical similarity to the Mona Lisa. Like the Mona Lisa, she sits upright in a dark chair and rests her hands on either a dark desk or perhaps a large dress that surrounds her. Her ungloved hand may be clasping a book or part of her sleeve. The loose brushwork is typical of Hals and shows a fleeting gesture with the casual way her finger is hooked over her wrist. Portraits of subjects with one glove on and one glove off are common in Dutch 17th-century marriage pendant portraits. Gloves symbolize the wedding vows where the husband and wife each hold one of a pair of gloves. In this case, her husband Joseph Coymans is wearing the "other glove" in his pendant portrait. In Hals' marriage pendant portraits, the husband is always situated on the left and the woman on the right, and the light always comes from the left, shining fully on the woman. In 1639 the portrait of Baldassare Castiglione by Raphael was auctioned in Amsterdam and caused a sensation, making this posture popular at that time among the sitters for portraits in the Netherlands. Hals is sure to have seen the Castiglione portrait, but it is not certain he was familiar with the Mona Lisa, though works by renaissance masters such as Titian were actively collected and studied throughout the Netherlands and neo-classicisme was on the rise at that time. Dorothea Berck is also known in Haarlem as a hofje founder. She purchased the hofje now known as the Vrouwe- en Antonie Gasthuys in 1655 and gave it the name of "Coymans Hofje". It is unknown why the hofje was later resold to Kolder.. 
Decanter. Author Name: Frank Stella. . Author Movement: Modernism, Minimal art, Abstract expressionism, Geometric abstraction, Abstract Illusionism, Lyrical abstraction, Hard-edge painting, Shaped canvas painting, Color field painting. . Decanter is an outdoor 1987 sculpture by Frank Stella, installed at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston's Lillie and Hugh Roy Cullen Sculpture Garden in the U.S. state of Texas. It is made of stainless steel, bronze, and carbon steel, and was purchased using monetary contributions from the Alice Pratt Brown Museum Fund. According to the museum, the piece "offers a exuberant collage of forms which bursts out into space".. Decanter is an outdoor 1987 sculpture by Frank Stella, installed at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston's Lillie and Hugh Roy Cullen Sculpture Garden in the U.S. state of Texas. It is made of stainless steel, bronze, and carbon steel, and was purchased using monetary contributions from the Alice Pratt Brown Museum Fund. According to the museum, the piece "offers a exuberant collage of forms which bursts out into space".. 
John Ruskin. Author Name: Sir John Everett Millais, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pre-Raphaelite_Brotherhood. . John Ruskin is a painting of the leading Victorian art critic John Ruskin (1819–1900). It was painted by the Pre-Raphaelite artist John Everett Millais (1829–1896) during 1853–4. John Ruskin was an early advocate of the Pre-Raphaelite group of artists and part of their success was due to his efforts.The painting depicts Ruskin in front of a waterfall in Glenfinlas, Scotland. Ruskin and Millais spent the summer of 1853 together at Glenfinlas in the Trossachs. Ruskin was especially interested in the rock formations and undertook his own studies of these.. John Ruskin is a painting of the leading Victorian art critic John Ruskin (1819–1900). It was painted by the Pre-Raphaelite artist John Everett Millais (1829–1896) during 1853–4. John Ruskin was an early advocate of the Pre-Raphaelite group of artists and part of their success was due to his efforts. The painting depicts Ruskin in front of a waterfall in Glenfinlas, Scotland. Ruskin and Millais spent the summer of 1853 together at Glenfinlas in the Trossachs. Ruskin was especially interested in the rock formations and undertook his own studies of these.. 
Teamwork. Author Name: Amrany, Omri. . . Teamwork is a public sculpture by Omri Amrany located at Miller Park west of downtown Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Teamwork is cast in bronze and honors three Iron Workers Local 8 members killed during the construction of the new baseball stadium. The sculpture was commissioned by the Habush, Habush and Rottier Charitable Foundation for $250,000.. Teamwork is a public sculpture by Omri Amrany located at Miller Park west of downtown Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Teamwork is cast in bronze and honors three Iron Workers Local 8 members killed during the construction of the new baseball stadium. The sculpture was commissioned by the Habush, Habush and Rottier Charitable Foundation for $250,000.. 
Einstein Gargoyle. Author Name: Wayne Chabre. . . Einstein Gargoyle, also referred to as Albert Einstein, Einstein, and Einstein Gargoyles, is an outdoor 1986 sculpture by Wayne Chabre, installed on the exterior of Willamette Hall on the University of Oregon campus in Eugene, Oregon, United States. The portrait bust depicts Albert Einstein in high relief with a fluttering necktie, and was inspired by a photograph of the scientist on his birthday. It is made of hammered copper sheet and measures approximately 2.5 feet (0.76 m) x 1.5 feet (0.46 m) x 1.5 feet (0.46 m). The sculpture's condition was undetermined when it was surveyed by the Smithsonian Institution's "Save Outdoor Sculpture!" program in March 1993. The sculpture is administered by the University of Oregon.. Einstein Gargoyle, also referred to as Albert Einstein, Einstein, and Einstein Gargoyles, is an outdoor 1986 sculpture by Wayne Chabre, installed on the exterior of Willamette Hall on the University of Oregon campus in Eugene, Oregon, United States. The portrait bust depicts Albert Einstein in high relief with a fluttering necktie, and was inspired by a photograph of the scientist on his birthday. It is made of hammered copper sheet and measures approximately 2.5 feet (0.76 m) x 1.5 feet (0.46 m) x 1.5 feet (0.46 m). The sculpture's condition was undetermined when it was surveyed by the Smithsonian Institution's "Save Outdoor Sculpture!" program in March 1993. The sculpture is administered by the University of Oregon.. 
Heller Altar. Author Name: Albrecht Dürer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Heller Altar was an oil on panel triptych by German Renaissance artists Albrecht Dürer and Matthias Grünewald, executed between 1507 and 1509. The artwork was named after Jakob Heller, who ordered it. Dürer painted the interior, Grünewald the exterior.In 1615, Dürer copyist Jobst Harrich painted a duplicate, which is now at the Städel of Frankfurt. The side panels, executed by Bosch's workshop basing from his drawings, are at the Staatliche Kunsthalle of Karlsruhe.. The Heller Altar was an oil on panel triptych by German Renaissance artists Albrecht Dürer and Matthias Grünewald, executed between 1507 and 1509. The artwork was named after Jakob Heller, who ordered it. Dürer painted the interior, Grünewald the exterior. In 1615, Dürer copyist Jobst Harrich painted a duplicate, which is now at the Städel of Frankfurt. The side panels, executed by Bosch's workshop basing from his drawings, are at the Staatliche Kunsthalle of Karlsruhe.. 
Monument to Balzac. Author Name: Auguste Rodin. . . Monument to Balzac is a sculpture by Auguste Rodin in memory of the French novelist Honoré Balzac. According to Rodin, the sculpture aims to portray the writer’s persona rather than a physical likeness. The work was commissioned in 1891 by the Société des Gens de Lettres, a full-size plaster model was displayed in 1898 at a Salon in Champ de Mars. After coming under criticism the model was rejected by the société and Rodin moved it to his home in Meudon. On July 2, 1939 (22 years after the sculptor's death) the model was cast in bronze for the first time and placed on the Boulevard du Montparnasse at the intersection with Boulevard Raspail.. Monument to Balzac is a sculpture by Auguste Rodin in memory of the French novelist Honoré Balzac. According to Rodin, the sculpture aims to portray the writer’s persona rather than a physical likeness. The work was commissioned in 1891 by the Société des Gens de Lettres, a full-size plaster model was displayed in 1898 at a Salon in Champ de Mars. After coming under criticism the model was rejected by the société and Rodin moved it to his home in Meudon. On July 2, 1939 (22 years after the sculptor's death) the model was cast in bronze for the first time and placed on the Boulevard du Montparnasse at the intersection with Boulevard Raspail. Casts and various studies of the sculpture are today in many different locations including Middelheim Open Air Sculpture Museum in Antwerp, The Norton Simon Museum of Art, the Musée Rodin in Meudon, the Hirshhorn Museum, the Hirschhorn Sculpture Garden (Smithsonian) in Washington D.C, The Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Museum of Modern Art in New York City, the National Gallery of Victoria in Melbourne, the Ashmolean Museum in Oxford, in front of the Van Abbemuseum, Eindhoven, Netherlands and in Caracas, Venezuela in the open spaces around the former Ateneo de Caracas, now UNEARTES . Today the artwork is sometimes considered the first truly modern sculpture.. 
Woman with a Water Jug. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . Woman with a Water Jug, also known as Young Woman with a Water Pitcher, is a painting finished between 1660–1662 by the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer in the Baroque style. It is oil on canvas, 45.7cm x 40.6 cm, and is on display at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York.. Woman with a Water Jug, also known as Young Woman with a Water Pitcher, is a painting finished between 1660–1662 by the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer in the Baroque style. It is oil on canvas, 45.7cm x 40.6 cm, and is on display at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York.. 
Woman with Black Glove. Author Name: Albert Gleizes. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_art. . Woman with Black Glove (French: Femme au gant noir, or Femme Assise) is a painting by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes. Painted in 1920, after returning to Paris in the wake of World War I, the paintings highly abstract structure is consistent with style of experimentation that transpired during the second synthetic phase of Cubism, called Crystal Cubism. As other post-wartime works by Gleizes, Woman with Black Glove represents a break from the first phase of Cubism, with emphasis placed on flat surface activity and large overlapping geometric planes.. Woman with Black Glove (French: Femme au gant noir, or Femme Assise) is a painting by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes. Painted in 1920, after returning to Paris in the wake of World War I, the paintings highly abstract structure is consistent with style of experimentation that transpired during the second synthetic phase of Cubism, called Crystal Cubism. As other post-wartime works by Gleizes, Woman with Black Glove represents a break from the first phase of Cubism, with emphasis placed on flat surface activity and large overlapping geometric planes. There are several smaller versions of Woman with Black Glove, illustrating a facet of Gleizes' pursuits during the early 1920s: "reminiscences of specific reality evoked within the context of increasingly careful picture construction", writes art historian Daniel Robbins. Woman with Black Glove was exhibited at the Salon d'Automne, Grand Palais, Paris, 15 October – 12 December 1920. The work was reproduced in Floréal: l'hebdomadaire illustré du monde du travail, no. 45, 11 December 1920 (titled Peinture avec femme assise). Formerly in the private collection of Juliette Roche-Gleizes (wife of the artist), Woman with Black Glove is located at the National Gallery of Australia.. 
M-Maybe. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . M-Maybe is a 1965 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It is one of his romance comics-based works.. M-Maybe is a 1965 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It is one of his romance comics-based works.. 
Niagara Falls, from the American Side. Author Name: Frederic Edwin Church. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Hudson_River_School. . Niagara Falls, from the American Side is a painting by the American artist Frederic Edwin Church (1826–1900). Completed in 1867, and based on preliminary sketches made by the artist at Niagara Falls and on a sepia photograph, it is one of a series of paintings by Church of this famous landmark. The painting is now in the collection of the Scottish National Gallery. Church is noted as one of the most outstanding landscape painters in the United States.. Niagara Falls, from the American Side is a painting by the American artist Frederic Edwin Church (1826–1900). Completed in 1867, and based on preliminary sketches made by the artist at Niagara Falls and on a sepia photograph, it is one of a series of paintings by Church of this famous landmark. The painting is now in the collection of the Scottish National Gallery. Church is noted as one of the most outstanding landscape painters in the United States.. 
Equestrian Statue of Theodore Roosevelt. Author Name: James E. Fraser. . . Equestrian Statue of Theodore Roosevelt is a bronze statue, by James Earle Fraser. It is located at the American Museum of Natural History, New York City. The statue depicts Theodore Roosevelt on horseback. Standing to either side of him are an American Indian and an African American.. Equestrian Statue of Theodore Roosevelt is a bronze statue, by James Earle Fraser. It is located at the American Museum of Natural History, New York City. The statue depicts Theodore Roosevelt on horseback. Standing to either side of him are an American Indian and an African American.. 
The Laundress. Author Name: Honoré Daumier. . . The Laundress (La Blanchisseuse) (also known in English as The Washerwoman) is an oil-on-panel painted by French artist Honoré Daumier in 1863. It is currently held and exhibited at the Musée d'Orsay in Paris.. The Laundress (La Blanchisseuse) (also known in English as The Washerwoman) is an oil-on-panel painted by French artist Honoré Daumier in 1863. It is currently held and exhibited at the Musée d'Orsay in Paris.. 
Landscape with Dunes. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Landscape with Dunes is an oil painting created in 1883 by Vincent van Gogh.. Landscape with Dunes is an oil painting created in 1883 by Vincent van Gogh.. 
Prosperous Suzhou. Author Name: Xu, Yang. . . Prosperous Suzhou (Chinese: 姑蘇繁華圖, 姑苏繁华图, Gūsū Fánhuá Tú), originally entitled Burgeoning Life in a Resplendent Age (盛世滋生圖, 盛世滋生图, Shèngshì Zīshēng Tú), is an exceptionally long 18th-century scroll painting (handscroll) created in 1759 by the Chinese court painter Xu Yang. Depicting the bustling urban life of Suzhou, it combines Western perspective with traditional Chinese style.. Prosperous Suzhou (Chinese: 姑蘇繁華圖, 姑苏繁华图, Gūsū Fánhuá Tú), originally entitled Burgeoning Life in a Resplendent Age (盛世滋生圖, 盛世滋生图, Shèngshì Zīshēng Tú), is an exceptionally long 18th-century scroll painting (handscroll) created in 1759 by the Chinese court painter Xu Yang. Depicting the bustling urban life of Suzhou, it combines Western perspective with traditional Chinese style.. 
Christ among the Doctors. Author Name: Albrecht Dürer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Christ among the Doctors is an oil painting by Albrecht Dürer, dating to 1506, now in the Museo Thyssen-Bornemisza, Madrid, Spain. The work dates to Dürer's sojourn in Venice, and was executed (according to the inscription Opus Quinque Dierum, meaning "Made in five days") hastily while he was working at the Feast of the Rosary altarpiece.. Christ among the Doctors is an oil painting by Albrecht Dürer, dating to 1506, now in the Museo Thyssen-Bornemisza, Madrid, Spain. The work dates to Dürer's sojourn in Venice, and was executed (according to the inscription Opus Quinque Dierum, meaning "Made in five days") hastily while he was working at the Feast of the Rosary altarpiece. According to some sources, it could have been given to painter Giovanni Bellini. In the latter's house it was perhaps seen by Lorenzo Lotto, who used one of the figures in the painting for his Madonna with Child between Sts. Flavian and Onuphrius now in the Borghese Gallery. The subject had been already treated by Dürer in a woodcut of the Life of the Virgin series and in a panel of the Seven Sorrows Polyptych. However, in the Venetian work the German artist adopted a totally new composition, with the characters occupying the whole scene and surrounding the young Jesus, leaving a little room for the black background. The topic is the Finding in the Temple episode from Jesus' childhood, found in the Gospel of Luke. The character at the left of Jesus is a true caricature, perhaps inspired by one of Leonardo da Vinci's drawings seen by Dürer. The man in the lower right corner has a cartouche on his beret, a custom of the Pharisees. The one on the opposite side is perhaps a citation of Bellini.. 
The Rape of Europa. Author Name: Titian. . . The Rape of Europa is a painting by the Italian artist Titian, painted ca. 1560-62. It hangs in the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum of Boston, Massachusetts. The oil-on-canvas painting measures 178 by 205 centimetres (70 in × 81 in).. The Rape of Europa is a painting by the Italian artist Titian, painted ca. 1560-62. It hangs in the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum of Boston, Massachusetts. The oil-on-canvas painting measures 178 by 205 centimetres (70 in × 81 in).. 
Abraham Lincoln. Author Name: Cecere, Gaetano. . . Abraham Lincoln is a public artwork by American artist Gaetano Cecere located on Lincoln Memorial Drive in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States. The 10'6" bronze sculpture depicts a young beardless Abraham Lincoln. The former president stands looking down with both hands at his sides.. Abraham Lincoln is a public artwork by American artist Gaetano Cecere located on Lincoln Memorial Drive in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States. The 10'6" bronze sculpture depicts a young beardless Abraham Lincoln. The former president stands looking down with both hands at his sides.. 
Grasshopper. Author Name: Wayne Chabre. . . Grasshopper is an outdoor 1988 copper sculpture by Wayne Chabre, located in Salem, Oregon, United States.. Grasshopper is an outdoor 1988 copper sculpture by Wayne Chabre, located in Salem, Oregon, United States.. 
Washington Grays Monument. Author Name: John Albert Wilson. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/American_Renaissance. . Washington Grays Monument (also known as the "Pennsylvania Volunteer") is a bronze statue by John A. Wilson. The monument represents the Washington Grays who served in the 17th, 21st and 49th Pennsylvania Volunteer Regiment during the American Civil War. Renowned sculptor and art historian Lorado Taft wrote, "No American sculpture, however, has surpassed the compelling power which John A. Wilson put into his steady, motionless 'Pennsylvania Volunteer'." Joseph Wilson built the base of the monument which was unveiled on April 19, 1872. Over 35 years later John Wilson sculpted the bronze statue, which was dedicated on April 18, 1908 at Washington Square, and rededicated June 14, 1991 at its present location in front of the Union League of Philadelphia, 140 South Broad Street, in Center City,. Washington Grays Monument (also known as the "Pennsylvania Volunteer") is a bronze statue by John A. Wilson. The monument represents the Washington Grays who served in the 17th, 21st and 49th Pennsylvania Volunteer Regiment during the American Civil War. Renowned sculptor and art historian Lorado Taft wrote, "No American sculpture, however, has surpassed the compelling power which John A. Wilson put into his steady, motionless 'Pennsylvania Volunteer'." Joseph Wilson built the base of the monument which was unveiled on April 19, 1872. Over 35 years later John Wilson sculpted the bronze statue, which was dedicated on April 18, 1908 at Washington Square, and rededicated June 14, 1991 at its present location in front of the Union League of Philadelphia, 140 South Broad Street, in Center City, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The sculpture is positioned adjacent to the sculpture 1st Regiment Infantry National Guard of Philadelphia.. 
General Johnson. Author Name: Benjamin West. . . General Johnson Saving a Wounded French Officer from the Tomahawk of a North American Indian is a painting by Benjamin West, completed between 1764 and 1768. It depicts a scene as observed by a native of Pennsylvania, soon after the actual events shown. It is in the collection of Derby Museum and Art Gallery.. General Johnson Saving a Wounded French Officer from the Tomahawk of a North American Indian is a painting by Benjamin West, completed between 1764 and 1768. It depicts a scene as observed by a native of Pennsylvania, soon after the actual events shown. It is in the collection of Derby Museum and Art Gallery.. 
Benito Juarez. Author Name: Luis Ortiz Monasterio. . . Benito Juárez is the title of a work of art by Enrique Alciati, located at the intersection of Virginia Avenue and New Hampshire Avenue in Washington, District of Columbia, United States. The statue is a part of the city's Statues of the Liberators collection and is a tribute to former president of Mexico, Benito Juárez.. Benito Juárez is the title of a work of art by Enrique Alciati, located at the intersection of Virginia Avenue and New Hampshire Avenue in Washington, District of Columbia, United States. The statue is a part of the city's Statues of the Liberators collection and is a tribute to former president of Mexico, Benito Juárez.. 
A Lady with a Squirrel and a Starling. Author Name: Hans Holbein the Younger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Northern_Renaissance. . A Lady with a Squirrel and a Starling is an oil on oak painting undertaken between 1526 and 1528 by the German artist Hans Holbein the Younger. Although the sitter was unknown for some time, it is thought to be Anne Lovell, the wife of Francis, a squire to Henry VIII; according to Derek Wilson, Holbein's biographer, "the squirrel was Lovell's heraldic badge and the starling is a pun on 'East Harling'", which was Lovell's ancestral seat. It is unlikely that the sitter posed with the animals, which were likely to have been separate sittings by Holbein.. A Lady with a Squirrel and a Starling is an oil on oak painting undertaken between 1526 and 1528 by the German artist Hans Holbein the Younger. Although the sitter was unknown for some time, it is thought to be Anne Lovell, the wife of Francis, a squire to Henry VIII; according to Derek Wilson, Holbein's biographer, "the squirrel was Lovell's heraldic badge and the starling is a pun on 'East Harling'", which was Lovell's ancestral seat. It is unlikely that the sitter posed with the animals, which were likely to have been separate sittings by Holbein. The painting was probably undertaken during Holbein's first visit to Britain in 1526–28, and it contains azurite, copper resinate, lead white, lamp black, red earth, Cologne earth and vermilion pigments, held in a linseed oil binder. The painting was acquired in 1992 by the National Gallery in London, which considers it to be "a wonderfully preserved example of Holbein's art at its most evocative". In 2014 King and McGaw partnered with Art Everywhere, a charitable project putting on the world's largest art exhibition displayed 25 artworks on 30,000 billboards across the UK including A Lady with a Squirrel and a Starling. The profits of the campaign went to the Art Fund.. 
Annunciation. Author Name: Fra' Filippo Lippi, O.Carm.. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Annunciation is a tempera on panel painting by the Italian Renaissance master Filippo Lippi, dating to c. 1449–59, in the collection of the National Gallery, London. It is a pendant to Lippi's Seven Saints, also in the National Gallery. The lunettes were commissioned as part of the decoration of the Palazzo Medici in Florence, where they were likely placed above a door or a bed.The painting depicts the Annunciation of Mary with the archangel Gabriel (left) and Mary (right). God, whose hand can be seen at the lunette's top is blessing Mary through the dove symbolizing the Holy Ghost.. The Annunciation is a tempera on panel painting by the Italian Renaissance master Filippo Lippi, dating to c. 1449–59, in the collection of the National Gallery, London. It is a pendant to Lippi's Seven Saints, also in the National Gallery. The lunettes were commissioned as part of the decoration of the Palazzo Medici in Florence, where they were likely placed above a door or a bed. There is general agreement on Lippi's authorship of the panels, but their dating is less certain; they were produced some time between Lorenzo the Magnificent's birth in 1449 and the completion of the palace's furnishing in 1459. That their patron belonged to the Medici family is testified by the presence of Piero di Cosimo de' Medici's coat of arms (three feathers crossed by a ring with diamond and cartouche) at the base of the small column with a vase which divides the painting in two. The painting depicts the Annunciation of Mary with the archangel Gabriel (left) and Mary (right). God, whose hand can be seen at the lunette's top is blessing Mary through the dove symbolizing the Holy Ghost. Both lunettes were acquired in 1855 from the Metzger Brothers by Sir Charles Eastlake and donated to the National Gallery in 1861.. 
Three Flags. Author Name: Jasper Johns. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . Three Flags is a 1958 painting by American artist Jasper Johns.The work comprises three canvases painted with hot wax. The three canvases form a tiered arrangement, with each canvas approximately 25% smaller than the one below, thereby creating a three-dimensional work. Each canvas is painted to resemble the version of the United States flag that was in use at the time the work was painted, with 48 white stars in a blue canton on a field of thirteen alternating red and white stripes. Each flag is rendered with the approximately correct colors and proportions, as defined by Title 4 of the United States Code.. Three Flags is a 1958 painting by American artist Jasper Johns. The work comprises three canvases painted with hot wax. The three canvases form a tiered arrangement, with each canvas approximately 25% smaller than the one below, thereby creating a three-dimensional work. Each canvas is painted to resemble the version of the United States flag that was in use at the time the work was painted, with 48 white stars in a blue canton on a field of thirteen alternating red and white stripes. Each flag is rendered with the approximately correct colors and proportions, as defined by Title 4 of the United States Code. In a sense, the perspective is reversed, with the smaller paintings projecting out towards the viewer. Only the topmost smallest painting is fully visible; the two behind are only partially visible. The painting was acquired by the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York City for $1 million in 1980, to celebrate its 50th anniversary.. 
Broek in Waterland. Author Name: Jan Toorop. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Les_XX. . Broek in Waterland is an 1889 oil painting by Dutch-Indonesian artist Jan Toorop, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It is a pointillist image of the Dutch village of Broek in Waterland at twilight.. Broek in Waterland is an 1889 oil painting by Dutch-Indonesian artist Jan Toorop, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It is a pointillist image of the Dutch village of Broek in Waterland at twilight.. 
The Family of Felipe V. Author Name: Ranc, Jean. . . The Family of Felipe V is an oil on canvas painting by the French artist Jean Ranc completed in 1723. It features depictions of Philip V of Spain and his family. The painting is one of a trio of paintings that bear the same name; the other two are by Louis Michel van Loo and are dated 1738 and (a larger version) 1743.. The Family of Felipe V is an oil on canvas painting by the French artist Jean Ranc completed in 1723. It features depictions of Philip V of Spain and his family. The painting is one of a trio of paintings that bear the same name; the other two are by Louis Michel van Loo and are dated 1738 and (a larger version) 1743.. 
General Artemas Ward. Author Name: Crunelle, Leonard. . . General Artemas Ward is a bronze statue by Leonard Crunelle at Ward Circle, at the intersection of Nebraska Avenue and Massachusetts Avenues in Northwest, Washington, D.C.As a part of bequest of George Artemas Ward, great grandson of the general, to Harvard University, the sculpture was funded for $50,000. Increases in the cost of bronze made an equestrian memorial un-affordable.It was dedicated on November 3, 1938, and authorized by (45 Stat. 689). The base of the statue bears this inscription:. General Artemas Ward is a bronze statue by Leonard Crunelle at Ward Circle, at the intersection of Nebraska Avenue and Massachusetts Avenues in Northwest, Washington, D.C. As a part of bequest of George Artemas Ward, great grandson of the general, to Harvard University, the sculpture was funded for $50,000. Increases in the cost of bronze made an equestrian memorial un-affordable. It was dedicated on November 3, 1938, and authorized by (45 Stat. 689). The base of the statue bears this inscription: As part of American Revolution Statuary in Washington, D.C. the statue is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.. 
Madonna with Child. Author Name: Antonello da Messina. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Madonna with Child (Salting Madonna) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Antonello da Messina, depicting the Madona holding the Child and wearing an ornate golden crown, held by angels over her head. It is housed in the National Gallery, London. The name Salting derives from George Salting, the collector who donated it to the gallery in 1910.. The Madonna with Child (Salting Madonna) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Antonello da Messina, depicting the Madona holding the Child and wearing an ornate golden crown, held by angels over her head. It is housed in the National Gallery, London. The name Salting derives from George Salting, the collector who donated it to the gallery in 1910.. 
The Spirit. Author Name: Amrany, Omri. . . The Michael Jordan statue, officially known as The Spirit (and sometimes referred to as Michael Jordan's Spirit), is a bronze sculpture by Omri Amrany and Julie Rotblatt-Amrany outside the United Center in the Near West Side community area of Chicago. The sculpture was originally commissioned after Jordan's initial retirement following three consecutive NBA championships and unveiled prior to the Bulls taking residence in their new home stadium the following year. Depicting Basketball Hall of Fame member Michael Jordan and unveiled on November 1, 1994, the 12-foot (3.7 m) sculpture stands atop a 5-foot (1.52 m) black granite base. Although not critically well received, the statue has established its own legacy as a meeting place for fans at subsequent Bulls championships and as a rallying . The Michael Jordan statue, officially known as The Spirit (and sometimes referred to as Michael Jordan's Spirit), is a bronze sculpture by Omri Amrany and Julie Rotblatt-Amrany outside the United Center in the Near West Side community area of Chicago. The sculpture was originally commissioned after Jordan's initial retirement following three consecutive NBA championships and unveiled prior to the Bulls taking residence in their new home stadium the following year. Depicting Basketball Hall of Fame member Michael Jordan and unveiled on November 1, 1994, the 12-foot (3.7 m) sculpture stands atop a 5-foot (1.52 m) black granite base. Although not critically well received, the statue has established its own legacy as a meeting place for fans at subsequent Bulls championships and as a rallying point for Chicago Blackhawks fans during their prideful times.. 
Venus and Adonis. Author Name: Titian. . . Venus and Adonis is a subject painted by the Italian late Renaissance artist Titian a number of times. The version now in Madrid's Museo del Prado was executed in Venice in the 1550s. It was part of a series of mythological paintings called "poesie" ("poems") intended for King Philip II of Spain. Venus and Adonis was designed to be viewed alongside Danaë, a painting from the same series with a related composition. It is displayed in the Prado in a room with other Titians including a version of Danaë.. Venus and Adonis is a subject painted by the Italian late Renaissance artist Titian a number of times. The version now in Madrid's Museo del Prado was executed in Venice in the 1550s. It was part of a series of mythological paintings called "poesie" ("poems") intended for King Philip II of Spain. Venus and Adonis was designed to be viewed alongside Danaë, a painting from the same series with a related composition. It is displayed in the Prado in a room with other Titians including a version of Danaë. The Prado online catalogue refers to Titian's first version being a painting done in the 1520s, now lost, and describes the painting in the Prado as one of the first to be painted of the "poesie" series. However, the connections between Titian's versions of Venus and Adonis are complicated.The painting commissioned by King Philip II was damaged during delivery, and there is a view that it survives as the so-called Lausanne version, which in 2007 was exhibited for the first time in 200 years at a major scientific exhibition of Titian paintings in Belluno. It appears that Titian replaced the damaged original with the painting now in the Prado. He went on to paint other versions of the same subject. The painting is based on the legend of Ovid, though with modifications (Adonis leaves Venus, and not vice versa). It portrays a young Adonis, at dawn, with his dogs, leaving Venus, who desperately tries to keep him with her. The scene symbolizes the force of the hunt call, in turn a metaphor of life and of worldly affairs, which is stronger than that of love (embodied by Eros, sleeping under trees on the left). In contrast to the later version in Rome, the background features a shining sun emerging from the clouds in an only partially overcast sky.. 
Captain Nathan Hale. Author Name: Bela L. Pratt. . . Captain Nathan Hale is a bronze statue of Nathan Hale, by Bela Lyon Pratt. It is located at the south facade of the Robert F. Kennedy Department of Justice Building, 10th Street and Constitution Avenue, Northwest, Washington, D.C.This example was cast around 1930, and dedicated on April 18, 1948.The original is at Yale University, and other examples are at Fort Nathan Hale, the Chicago Tribune Tower, and CIA headquarters.signed Founder's mark appears. Captain Nathan Hale is a bronze statue of Nathan Hale, by Bela Lyon Pratt. It is located at the south facade of the Robert F. Kennedy Department of Justice Building, 10th Street and Constitution Avenue, Northwest, Washington, D.C. This example was cast around 1930, and dedicated on April 18, 1948. The original is at Yale University, and other examples are at Fort Nathan Hale, the Chicago Tribune Tower, and CIA headquarters. The inscription reads:(Sculpture, near figure's proper left foot:) B.L. PRATT (Sculpture, near figure's proper right foot:) REPLICA OF THATAT YALE UNIVERSITY (Sculpture, around bottom rim:) I ONLY REGRET THAT I HAVE BUT ONE LIFE TO LOSE FOR MY COUNTRY (Base, front:) signed Founder's mark appears As part of American Revolution Statuary in Washington, D.C. the statue at the Department of Justice Building is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.. 
The Peasant Wedding. Author Name: Pieter Bruegel the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_and_Flemish_Renaissance_painting. . The Peasant Wedding is a 1567 genre painting by the Flemish Renaissance painter and printmaker Pieter Bruegel the Elder, one of his many depicting peasant life. It is currently housed in the Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna. Pieter Bruegel the Elder enjoyed painting peasants and different aspects of their lives in so many of his paintings that he has been called Peasant-Bruegel, but he was in fact a sophisticated intellectual, and many of his paintings have a symbolic meaning and also a moral aspect.. The Peasant Wedding is a 1567 genre painting by the Flemish Renaissance painter and printmaker Pieter Bruegel the Elder, one of his many depicting peasant life. It is currently housed in the Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna. Pieter Bruegel the Elder enjoyed painting peasants and different aspects of their lives in so many of his paintings that he has been called Peasant-Bruegel, but he was in fact a sophisticated intellectual, and many of his paintings have a symbolic meaning and also a moral aspect.. 
The Railway. Author Name: Édouard Manet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Railway, widely known as Gare Saint-Lazare, is an 1873 painting by Édouard Manet. It is the last painting by Manet of his favourite model, the fellow painter Victorine Meurent, who was also the model for his earlier works Olympia and the Luncheon on the Grass. It was exhibited at the Paris Salon in 1874, and donated to the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. in 1956.. The Railway, widely known as Gare Saint-Lazare, is an 1873 painting by Édouard Manet. It is the last painting by Manet of his favourite model, the fellow painter Victorine Meurent, who was also the model for his earlier works Olympia and the Luncheon on the Grass. It was exhibited at the Paris Salon in 1874, and donated to the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. in 1956.. 
The Barque of Dante. Author Name: Eugène Delacroix. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . The Barque of Dante (French: La Barque de Dante), sometimes known as Dante and Virgil in Hell (Dante et Virgile aux enfers), is the first major painting by the French artist Eugène Delacroix, and one of the works signalling a shift in the character of narrative painting from Neo-Classicism towards the Romantic movement. It was completed for the opening of the Salon of 1822 and currently hangs in the Musée du Louvre, Paris.. The Barque of Dante (French: La Barque de Dante), sometimes known as Dante and Virgil in Hell (Dante et Virgile aux enfers), is the first major painting by the French artist Eugène Delacroix, and one of the works signalling a shift in the character of narrative painting from Neo-Classicism towards the Romantic movement. It was completed for the opening of the Salon of 1822 and currently hangs in the Musée du Louvre, Paris. The painting is loosely based on fictional events taken from canto eight of Dante’s Inferno. A leaden, smoky mist and the blazing City of the Dead form the backdrop against which the poet Dante endures a fearful crossing of the River Styx. He is steadied by the learned poet of antiquity Virgil as they plough through waters heaving with tormented souls. The arrangement of figures is for the most part compliant with the tenets of the cool, reflective Neo-Classicism that had dominated French painting for nearly four decades. There is a group of central upright figures, and a rational arrangement of subsidiary figures, all in horizontal planes, and observing studied poses.. 
Monument to Lenin. Author Name: Schuko. . . The year 1926 was marked by many events that left an imprint on the history of Soviet and Russian fine arts.. The year 1926 was marked by many events that left an imprint on the history of Soviet and Russian fine arts.. 
Lady Agnew of Lochnaw. Author Name: John Singer Sargent. . . Lady Agnew of Lochnaw is an oil on canvas portrait painting of Lady Gertrude Agnew, the wife of Sir Andrew Agnew, 9th Baronet. The painting was commissioned in 1892 and completed in that year by the American portrait artist John Singer Sargent. It measures at 127 × 101 cm (50.0 × 39.8 in) and is owned by the Scottish National Gallery in Edinburgh, Scotland. The museum acquired it through the Cowan Smith Bequest Fund in 1925.. Lady Agnew of Lochnaw is an oil on canvas portrait painting of Lady Gertrude Agnew, the wife of Sir Andrew Agnew, 9th Baronet. The painting was commissioned in 1892 and completed in that year by the American portrait artist John Singer Sargent. It measures at 127 × 101 cm (50.0 × 39.8 in) and is owned by the Scottish National Gallery in Edinburgh, Scotland. The museum acquired it through the Cowan Smith Bequest Fund in 1925.. 
The Three Crosses. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Three Crosses is an etching and drypoint by the Dutch artist Rembrandt van Rijn, which depicts the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. It is considered 'one of the most dynamic prints ever made'.The main subject in the etching is Jesus Christ on the cross, flanked by the two thieves who were crucified with him. The etching depicts the Virgin Mary, mother of Jesus, weeping and supported by the Evangelist. Roman soldiers on horseback, along with grieving citizens, surround the crosses. A beam of light, representing God's light from heaven, pierces the darkened sky to envelope the crucified figure of Christ.. The Three Crosses is an etching and drypoint by the Dutch artist Rembrandt van Rijn, which depicts the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. It is considered 'one of the most dynamic prints ever made'. The main subject in the etching is Jesus Christ on the cross, flanked by the two thieves who were crucified with him. The etching depicts the Virgin Mary, mother of Jesus, weeping and supported by the Evangelist. Roman soldiers on horseback, along with grieving citizens, surround the crosses. A beam of light, representing God's light from heaven, pierces the darkened sky to envelope the crucified figure of Christ. The etching is noted for its especially intricate iconography, and may represent the exact moment of Christ's death. According to Paul Crenshaw of the Kemper Art Museum, Rembrandt was inspired by the text from Matthew 27:46-54 when Christ cried out, “My God, my God, why hast Thou forsaken Me?” Rembrandt drew heavily on biblical sources in his work, as well as being influenced by other Baroque contemporaries. The etching is one of over 300 Bible-inspired works Rembrandt created. The Three Crosses does not allow for dramatic contrasts of light and shade, known as chiaroscuro. Rembrandt produced the work in four stages, increasing the effects of the light and shade contrasts at each stage. Etching and drypoint are labor-intensive processes and one of the early forms of printmaking. Rembrandt chose these media primarily because he often suffered financial hardship. He sold many of his etchings in order to be able to afford to print The Three Crosses. Rembrandt made around sixty impressions from the plate in its first three stages, the darkest shadows on the piece being done in dry point, and Christ and the lighter figures being etched. The nature of the media meant it was possible for Rembrandt to make continuous alterations (which he did over a ten year period), adding further etching and dry point, changing the composition of the picture and making the final image darker and more chaotic. In the last stage, the Virgin Mary becomes an almost disembodied head surrounded by darkness. The figures originally encircling her have been removed, as have been some of the soldiers on horseback. A man in a large hat (also on horseback) has been added and is believed to be a figure from Rembrandt’s The Conspiracy of Claudius Civilis. The most dramatic alteration is to the "heavenly light" which has become considerably darkened, especially to the right of the picture. Rembrandt may have intended the contrast between the heavenly light and darkness surrounding it to distinguish the 'good' thief from the 'bad' thief. Each progressive change in the work increases the focal importance of the Christ figure. In its fourth and fifth state, Rembrandt inked the plates in a different number of ways and with different qualities of ink. One of the prints in the fourth stage is located at the Kemper Art Museum.. 
Portrait Miniature of Margaret Roper. Author Name: Hans Holbein the Younger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Northern_Renaissance. . Portrait Miniature of Margaret Roper is a painting by the German artist and printmaker Hans Holbein the Younger created between 1535–36, and today held in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. Margaret Roper (1505–44) was the eldest child of Sir Thomas More and wife of the English biographer William Roper. It is the second and less well known of two portraits of Roper painted by Holbein. The first, Portrait of an English Woman, is generally believed to show Roper but may depict another unknown lady of the English court. The New York work was painted during the artist's second visit to London, likely in the mid-1530s.. Portrait Miniature of Margaret Roper is a painting by the German artist and printmaker Hans Holbein the Younger created between 1535–36, and today held in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. Margaret Roper (1505–44) was the eldest child of Sir Thomas More and wife of the English biographer William Roper. It is the second and less well known of two portraits of Roper painted by Holbein. The first, Portrait of an English Woman, is generally believed to show Roper but may depict another unknown lady of the English court. The New York work was painted during the artist's second visit to London, likely in the mid-1530s. It is believed that the work was created shortly after her father's beheading at the hands of King Henry VIII in 1535. With a diameter of just 1 3⁄4 inches (4.4 cm), the work was one of over a hundred miniatures and portraits painted by Holbein while in England. This work is one of a pair of pendants; the second depicts the sitter's husband. Roper is depicted in three-quarters view with a narrow face and wearing extravagant clothes that reflect her social position. She has a long veil crowned by a red/orange headdress. Her black gown is lined with a broad band of fur. She holds a green book in her hands which are decorated by gold rings. A horizontal gold inscription reads "Ao ÆTATIS XXX". The work was donated to the Metropolitan Museum by the Rogers Fund in 1950.. 
Landscape at Auvers in the Rain. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Landscape at Auvers in the Rain is an oil on canvas by the Dutch post-impressionist painter Vincent van Gogh. Painted in July, 1890, and completed just 3 days before his death, it depicts a landscape at Auvers, where van Gogh spent the last years of his life. The depiction of the rain with dark, diagonal lines are considered[according to whom?] to be inspired by Japanese art.[citation needed] This was one of Van Gogh's last paintings before his death.. Landscape at Auvers in the Rain is an oil on canvas by the Dutch post-impressionist painter Vincent van Gogh. Painted in July, 1890, and completed just 3 days before his death, it depicts a landscape at Auvers, where van Gogh spent the last years of his life. The depiction of the rain with dark, diagonal lines are considered[according to whom?] to be inspired by Japanese art.[citation needed] This was one of Van Gogh's last paintings before his death.. 
Collins St., 5 pm. Author Name: John Brack. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Antipodeans. . Collins St., 5 pm is a 1955 painting by Australian artist John Brack. The painting depicts office workers walking along busy Collins Street in Melbourne after finishing work for the day—"Blank-faced office workers hurry by like sleep-walkers, thinking only of the pubs or their homes in the suburbs".It is considered a companion piece to Brack's earlier work, The Bar.The painting was purchased from Peter Bray Gallery for the National Gallery of Victoria's permanent Australian art collection and is exhibited in the Ian Potter Centre in Federation Square in Melbourne.. Collins St., 5 pm is a 1955 painting by Australian artist John Brack. The painting depicts office workers walking along busy Collins Street in Melbourne after finishing work for the day—"Blank-faced office workers hurry by like sleep-walkers, thinking only of the pubs or their homes in the suburbs". It is considered a companion piece to Brack's earlier work, The Bar. The painting was purchased from Peter Bray Gallery for the National Gallery of Victoria's permanent Australian art collection and is exhibited in the Ian Potter Centre in Federation Square in Melbourne. In 2011, Collins St., 5 pm was voted the most popular work in the collection of the National Gallery of Victoria.. 
Ascension. Author Name: Calvo, Robert. . . Ascension is an outdoor 1996 sculpture by American artist Robert Calvo, located in downtown Portland, Oregon. It is part of the City of Portland and Multnomah County Public Art Collection courtesy of the Regional Arts & Culture Council.. Ascension is an outdoor 1996 sculpture by American artist Robert Calvo, located in downtown Portland, Oregon. It is part of the City of Portland and Multnomah County Public Art Collection courtesy of the Regional Arts & Culture Council.. 
Vargas Swamp Lancers. Author Name: Arenas, Rodrigo. . . Vargas Swamp Lancers, or Monument to the Lancers (Spanish: Monumento a los Lanceros), is a large sculptural complex realized by Colombian artist Rodrigo Arenas Betancur in the department of Boyacá (Colombia) as a memorial for Vargas Swamp Battle. It is the largest monument in Colombia.This monument depicts the attack of the 14 lancers commanded by Colonel Juan José Rondón. It is 33 m high and was dedicated in the 150th anniversary of the Colombian Declaration of Independence (1970).. Vargas Swamp Lancers, or Monument to the Lancers (Spanish: Monumento a los Lanceros), is a large sculptural complex realized by Colombian artist Rodrigo Arenas Betancur in the department of Boyacá (Colombia) as a memorial for Vargas Swamp Battle. It is the largest monument in Colombia. This monument depicts the attack of the 14 lancers commanded by Colonel Juan José Rondón. It is 33 m high and was dedicated in the 150th anniversary of the Colombian Declaration of Independence (1970).. 
Robert Gould Shaw Memorial. Author Name: Augustus Saint-Gaudens. . . The Memorial to Robert Gould Shaw and the Massachusetts Fifty-Fourth Regiment is a bronze relief sculpture by Augustus Saint-Gaudens at 24 Beacon Street, Boston (at the edge of the Boston Common), depicting the 54th Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry marching down Beacon Street on May 28, 1863.It was unveiled May 31, 1897.. The Memorial to Robert Gould Shaw and the Massachusetts Fifty-Fourth Regiment is a bronze relief sculpture by Augustus Saint-Gaudens at 24 Beacon Street, Boston (at the edge of the Boston Common), depicting the 54th Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry marching down Beacon Street on May 28, 1863. It was unveiled May 31, 1897.. 
The Raising of Lazarus. Author Name: Sebastiano del Piombo. . Author Movement: Mannerism. . The Raising of Lazarus is a large altarpiece by the Italian High Renaissance artist Sebastiano del Piombo. It is housed in the National Gallery of London, England.. The Raising of Lazarus is a large altarpiece by the Italian High Renaissance artist Sebastiano del Piombo. It is housed in the National Gallery of London, England.. 
Man with Pipe. Author Name: Jean Metzinger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Le Fumeur (en. The Smoker), or Man with Pipe, is a Cubist painting by the French artist Jean Metzinger. It has been suggested that the sitter depicted in the painting represents either Guillaume Apollinaire or Max Jacob. The work was exhibited in the spring of 1914 at the Salon des Indépendants, Paris, Champ-de-Mars, March 1–April 30, 1914, no. 2289, Room 11. A photograph of Le Fumeur was published in Le Petit Comtois (Au Salon des Indépendants, Les chefs-d'œuvre modernes), 13 March 1914, for the occasion of the exhibition. In July 1914 the painting was exhibited in Berlin at Herwarth Walden’s Galerie Der Sturm, with works by Albert Gleizes, Raymond Duchamp-Villon and Jacques Villon.. Le Fumeur (en. The Smoker), or Man with Pipe, is a Cubist painting by the French artist Jean Metzinger. It has been suggested that the sitter depicted in the painting represents either Guillaume Apollinaire or Max Jacob. The work was exhibited in the spring of 1914 at the Salon des Indépendants, Paris, Champ-de-Mars, March 1–April 30, 1914, no. 2289, Room 11. A photograph of Le Fumeur was published in Le Petit Comtois (Au Salon des Indépendants, Les chefs-d'œuvre modernes), 13 March 1914, for the occasion of the exhibition. In July 1914 the painting was exhibited in Berlin at Herwarth Walden’s Galerie Der Sturm, with works by Albert Gleizes, Raymond Duchamp-Villon and Jacques Villon. Le Fumeur, titled Man with Pipe and dated c. 1912, forms part of the permanent collection of the Carnegie Museum of Art, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania (gift of G. David Thompson, 1953).. 
The Rabbit. Author Name: Édouard Manet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Rabbit is an 1881 oil painting by the French artist Édouard Manet, now displayed at the National Museum Wales in Cardiff, Wales. The work is a still life featuring a hung rabbit or hare (the work is sometimes referred as The Hare) which has been placed on a hook outside a closed house window.. The Rabbit is an 1881 oil painting by the French artist Édouard Manet, now displayed at the National Museum Wales in Cardiff, Wales. The work is a still life featuring a hung rabbit or hare (the work is sometimes referred as The Hare) which has been placed on a hook outside a closed house window.. 
The Merry Trio. Author Name: Judith Leyster. . . The Merry Trio is an oil painting by Judith Leyster in the Collection Noortman. It was considered a work by Frans Hals until 1903.. The Merry Trio is an oil painting by Judith Leyster in the Collection Noortman. It was considered a work by Frans Hals until 1903.. 
Broken Walrus I. Author Name: Freeman, Gary. . . Broken Walrus I, a public sculpture by American sculptor Gary Freeman, was installed on the Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis campus, near downtown Indianapolis, Indiana, in 1975. Located north of the IUPUI Lecture Hall, the sculpture was removed around 2004 after it rusted. The work was fabricated in mild steel, painted an orange-red matte finish, and measured 36-inch (91 cm) tall by 8-foot (2.4 m) long by 24-inch (61 cm) wide.. Broken Walrus I, a public sculpture by American sculptor Gary Freeman, was installed on the Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis campus, near downtown Indianapolis, Indiana, in 1975. Located north of the IUPUI Lecture Hall, the sculpture was removed around 2004 after it rusted. The work was fabricated in mild steel, painted an orange-red matte finish, and measured 36-inch (91 cm) tall by 8-foot (2.4 m) long by 24-inch (61 cm) wide.. 
Les Arènes. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Les Arènes is a painting by Vincent van Gogh executed in Arles, in November or December 1888, during the period of time when Paul Gauguin was living with him in The Yellow House. The bullfight season in Arles that year started on Easter Sunday 1 April and ended on 21 October. Van Gogh's painting is therefore not a study from nature but done from memory. Gauguin encouraged Van Gogh to work in the studio in this manner. The painting may not be finished as the paint is very thinly applied, and patches of bare jute show through in places.. Les Arènes is a painting by Vincent van Gogh executed in Arles, in November or December 1888, during the period of time when Paul Gauguin was living with him in The Yellow House. The bullfight season in Arles that year started on Easter Sunday 1 April and ended on 21 October. Van Gogh's painting is therefore not a study from nature but done from memory. Gauguin encouraged Van Gogh to work in the studio in this manner. The painting may not be finished as the paint is very thinly applied, and patches of bare jute show through in places. It seems that members of the Roulin Family are depicted in this portrait/, and the woman in Arlésienne costume has the profile of Madame Ginoux. A matter of weeks after painting this canvas, at Christmas 1888, Van Gogh cut off part of his own ear. One of the many theories about this notorious incident is that the bullfights (or "bull games" as they are called in Arles) made a deep impression on Van Gogh, in particular the custom of severing one ear of a defeated bull. The victorious matador circles the arena displaying this prize to the crowd, before presenting it to a lady of his choice. There is some doubt as to whether the bulls were killed in this fashion in Arles in Van Gogh's time.. 
The Chandos Portrait. Author Name: Taylor, John. . . The "Chandos" portrait is the most famous of the portraits that may depict William Shakespeare (1564–1616). Painted between 1600 and 1610, it may have served as the basis for the engraved portrait of Shakespeare used in the First Folio in 1623. It is named after the Dukes of Chandos, who formerly owned the painting. The portrait was given to the National Portrait Gallery, London on its foundation in 1856, and it is listed as the first work in its collection.. The "Chandos" portrait is the most famous of the portraits that may depict William Shakespeare (1564–1616). Painted between 1600 and 1610, it may have served as the basis for the engraved portrait of Shakespeare used in the First Folio in 1623. It is named after the Dukes of Chandos, who formerly owned the painting. The portrait was given to the National Portrait Gallery, London on its foundation in 1856, and it is listed as the first work in its collection. It has not been possible to determine with certainty who painted the portrait, nor whether it really depicts Shakespeare. However, the National Portrait Gallery believes that it probably does depict the writer.. 
Assumption of the Virgin. Author Name: Annibale Carracci. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Two paintings by the Italian Baroque painter Annibale Carracci take as their subject the Assumption of the Virgin Mary.. Two paintings by the Italian Baroque painter Annibale Carracci take as their subject the Assumption of the Virgin Mary.. 
Portrait of a Young Woman. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . Portrait of a Young Woman (also known as Study of a Young Woman, or Girl with a Veil) is a painting by the Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer, completed between 1666 and 1667, and now in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York.. Portrait of a Young Woman (also known as Study of a Young Woman, or Girl with a Veil) is a painting by the Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer, completed between 1666 and 1667, and now in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York. Because of its near-identical size and its proximity in tone and composition, it is often considered to be either a variant or pendant painting (counterpart) of the artist's better-known Girl with a Pearl Earring. The subjects of both paintings wear pearl earrings, have scarves draped over their shoulders, and are shown in front of a plain black background. In addition, it is likely that the creation of both works involved the use of a camera obscura.. 
La Bella. Author Name: Titian. . . La Bella is a portrait of an unknown woman by Titian, painted around 1536 and now in the Palazzo Pitti in Florence. The work of a mature artist, it shows the woman with Renaissance ideal proportions and a natural expressive force. The composition is clear.La Bella is often discussed as alternative to Titian's Portrait of Isabella d'Este in Vienna, because the order was a cajoling rejuvenated portrait by the more than 60 years old art patron. Eye colour, hair colour, eye brows and sex appeal would even homogenize all portraits of Isabella d'Este.. La Bella is a portrait of an unknown woman by Titian, painted around 1536 and now in the Palazzo Pitti in Florence. The work of a mature artist, it shows the woman with Renaissance ideal proportions and a natural expressive force. The composition is clear. La Bella is often discussed as alternative to Titian's Portrait of Isabella d'Este in Vienna, because the order was a cajoling rejuvenated portrait by the more than 60 years old art patron. Eye colour, hair colour, eye brows and sex appeal would even homogenize all portraits of Isabella d'Este. Titian likely used the same model for the Venus of Urbino. Both pictures are documented in letters by Francesco Maria I della Rovere, Duke of Urbino, who was the husband of Isabella's daughter Eleonora Gonzaga. The Venus of Urbino was painted for the marriage of their son, so there are similarities and the environment of the same familly. Symbol language: La Bella points with her hand to a zibellino, which is associated with the Venetian mature noble ladies and again, Isabella d'Este was one of the first ladies to wear.. 
Recanati Polyptych. Author Name: Lorenzo Lotto. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Recanati Polyptych (Italian: Polittico di Recanati) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Lorenzo Lotto, executed in 1506-1508 and housed in the Civic Museum of Villa Colloredo Mels, Recanati, Italy. The work is dated and signed Laurent[ius] Lotus MDVIII.Lotto began to work on the piece in 1506 as a devotional for the church of San Domenico in Recanati. By 1861 it was disassembled, but was later recomposed and transferred to the Communal Art Gallery.. The Recanati Polyptych (Italian: Polittico di Recanati) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Lorenzo Lotto, executed in 1506-1508 and housed in the Civic Museum of Villa Colloredo Mels, Recanati, Italy. The work is dated and signed Laurent[ius] Lotus MDVIII. Lotto began to work on the piece in 1506 as a devotional for the church of San Domenico in Recanati. By 1861 it was disassembled, but was later recomposed and transferred to the Communal Art Gallery.. 
Lenin in Kremlin. Author Name: Baskakov, Nikolai. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Lenin in Kremlin is a painting by Nikolai Nikolaevich Baskakov (Russian: Никола′й Никола′евич Баска′ков, 1918–1993), where he depicts Vladimir Lenin in his office in Kremlin, after a moving of the Soviet government from Petrograd to Moscow.. Lenin in Kremlin is a painting by Nikolai Nikolaevich Baskakov (Russian: Никола′й Никола′евич Баска′ков, 1918–1993), where he depicts Vladimir Lenin in his office in Kremlin, after a moving of the Soviet government from Petrograd to Moscow.. 
Madonna and Child. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Madonna of Bruges is a marble sculpture by Michelangelo of Mary with the Child Jesus.Michelangelo's depiction of the Madonna and Child differs significantly from earlier representations of the same subject, which tended to feature a pious Virgin smiling down on an infant held in her arms. Instead, Jesus stands upright, almost unsupported, only loosely restrained by Mary's left hand, and appears to be about to step away from his mother. Meanwhile, Mary does not cling to her son or even look at him, but gazes down and away. It is believed the work was originally intended for an altar piece. If this is so, then it would have been displayed facing slightly to the right and looking down.. The Madonna of Bruges is a marble sculpture by Michelangelo of Mary with the Child Jesus. Michelangelo's depiction of the Madonna and Child differs significantly from earlier representations of the same subject, which tended to feature a pious Virgin smiling down on an infant held in her arms. Instead, Jesus stands upright, almost unsupported, only loosely restrained by Mary's left hand, and appears to be about to step away from his mother. Meanwhile, Mary does not cling to her son or even look at him, but gazes down and away. It is believed the work was originally intended for an altar piece. If this is so, then it would have been displayed facing slightly to the right and looking down. Madonna and Child shares certain similarities with Michelangelo's Pietà, which was completed shortly before--mainly, the chiaroscuro effect and movement of the drapery. The long, oval face of Mary is also reminiscent of the Pietà. The work is also notable in that it was the only sculpture by Michelangelo to leave Italy during his lifetime. It was bought by Giovanni and Alessandro Moscheroni (Mouscron), from a family of wealthy cloth merchants in Bruges, then one of the leading commercial cities in Europe. The sculpture was sold for 4,000 florin. The sculpture was removed twice from Belgium after its initial arrival. The first was in 1794, after French Revolutionaries had conquered the Austrian Netherlands during the French Revolutionary Wars; the citizens of Bruges were ordered to ship it and several other valuable works of art to Paris. It was returned after Napoleon's final defeat at Waterloo in 1815. The second removal was in 1944, during World War II, with the retreat of German soldiers, who smuggled the sculpture to Germany enveloped in mattresses in a Red Cross truck. It was discovered a year later in Altaussee/Austria and again returned. It now sits in the Church of Our Lady in Bruges, Belgium. This is part of the fact-based movie The Monuments Men. After the attack on Michelangelo's Pietà in 1972, the sculpture was placed behind bulletproof glass, and the public can only view it from 15 feet away.. 
Young Slave. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Young Slave (Italian: Schiavo giovane) is a marble sculpture of Michelangelo, datable to around 1525–1530 which is conserved in the Galleria dell'Accademia in Florence. It is part of the "unfinished" series of Prigioni intended for the Tomb of Julius II.. The Young Slave (Italian: Schiavo giovane) is a marble sculpture of Michelangelo, datable to around 1525–1530 which is conserved in the Galleria dell'Accademia in Florence. It is part of the "unfinished" series of Prigioni intended for the Tomb of Julius II.. 
Indian Hunter. Author Name: John Quincy Adams Ward. . . Indian Hunter is an outdoor bronze sculpture by John Quincy Adams Ward, located at Central Park in Manhattan, New York. It was cast in 1866 and dedicated on February 4, 1869. The statue was Central Park's first sculpture by an American artist.. Indian Hunter is an outdoor bronze sculpture by John Quincy Adams Ward, located at Central Park in Manhattan, New York. It was cast in 1866 and dedicated on February 4, 1869. The statue was Central Park's first sculpture by an American artist.. 
St. Sebastian. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . St. Sebastian is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli, executed in 1474 for the Church of Santa Maria Maggiore, Florence. It is housed in the Staatliche Museen of Berlin.. St. Sebastian is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli, executed in 1474 for the Church of Santa Maria Maggiore, Florence. It is housed in the Staatliche Museen of Berlin.. 
Blue Nude. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . Blue Nude (Souvenir of Biskra) ("Nu bleu, Souvenir de Biskra"), an early 1907 oil painting on canvas by Henri Matisse, is located at the Baltimore Museum of Art as part of the Cone Collection.Matisse painted the nude when a sculpture he was working on shattered. He later finished the sculpture which is entitled Reclining Nude I (Aurore).. Blue Nude (Souvenir of Biskra) ("Nu bleu, Souvenir de Biskra"), an early 1907 oil painting on canvas by Henri Matisse, is located at the Baltimore Museum of Art as part of the Cone Collection. Matisse painted the nude when a sculpture he was working on shattered. He later finished the sculpture which is entitled Reclining Nude I (Aurore). Matisse shocked the French public at the 1907 Société des Artistes Indépendants when he exhibited Blue Nude (Souvenir de Biskra). The Blue Nude was one of the paintings that would later create an international sensation at the Armory Show of 1913 in New York City. The painting, which may be classified as Fauvist, was controversial; it was burned in effigy in 1913 at the Armory Show in Chicago, to where it had toured from New York City. In 1907 the painting had a strong effect on Georges Braque and Pablo Picasso, partially motivating Picasso to create Les Demoiselles D'Avignon.. 
His Highness the Prince. Author Name: Joan Miró. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . His Highness the Prince is an object-sculpture made by Joan Miró in 1974 and now part of the permanent collection of the Joan Miró Foundation in Barcelona.. His Highness the Prince is an object-sculpture made by Joan Miró in 1974 and now part of the permanent collection of the Joan Miró Foundation in Barcelona.. 
Girl in a Wetsuit. Author Name: Elek Imredy. . . Girl in a Wetsuit is a life size bronze sculpture by Elek Imredy of a woman in a wetsuit, located on a rock in the water along the north side of Stanley Park, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.. Girl in a Wetsuit is a life size bronze sculpture by Elek Imredy of a woman in a wetsuit, located on a rock in the water along the north side of Stanley Park, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.. 
Why I Never Became a Dancer. Author Name: Tracey Emin. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Young_British_Artists. . Why I Never Became a Dancer by Tracey Emin (1995) is a single-screen projection with sound, shot on Super 8. Duration: 6 minutes, 40 seconds. It was made in an edition of 10. An edited transcript has been published.. Why I Never Became a Dancer by Tracey Emin (1995) is a single-screen projection with sound, shot on Super 8. Duration: 6 minutes, 40 seconds. It was made in an edition of 10. An edited transcript has been published.. 
The Little Street. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . The Little Street (Het Straatje) is a painting by the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer, executed c. 1657–58. It is exhibited at the Rijksmuseum of Amsterdam, and signed on the left hand corner below the window "I V MEER".. The Little Street (Het Straatje) is a painting by the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer, executed c. 1657–58. It is exhibited at the Rijksmuseum of Amsterdam, and signed on the left hand corner below the window "I V MEER".. 
Christ and St. Thomas. Author Name: Andrea del Verrocchio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Christ and St. Thomas (1467–1483) is a bronze statue by Andrea del Verrocchio made for one of the 14 niches on the exterior walls of the Orsanmichele in Florence, Italy, where it is now replaced by a cast and the original moved inside the building, which is now a museum. It shows the episode that gave rise to the term "Doubting Thomas" which, formally known as the Incredulity of Thomas, had been frequently represented in Christian art since at least the 5th century, and used to make a variety of theological points. Thomas the Apostle doubted the resurrection of Jesus and had to feel the wounds for himself in order to be convinced (John 20:24-29). The surrounding marble niche was designed by Donatello for his St Louis of Toulouse (1413), but the statue was moved to Santa Croce when the nich. Christ and St. Thomas (1467–1483) is a bronze statue by Andrea del Verrocchio made for one of the 14 niches on the exterior walls of the Orsanmichele in Florence, Italy, where it is now replaced by a cast and the original moved inside the building, which is now a museum. It shows the episode that gave rise to the term "Doubting Thomas" which, formally known as the Incredulity of Thomas, had been frequently represented in Christian art since at least the 5th century, and used to make a variety of theological points. Thomas the Apostle doubted the resurrection of Jesus and had to feel the wounds for himself in order to be convinced (John 20:24-29). The surrounding marble niche was designed by Donatello for his St Louis of Toulouse (1413), but the statue was moved to Santa Croce when the niche was sold to the Tribunale di Mercanzia (merchant's guild), who commissioned the Verrochio work.. 
A View of Delft. Author Name: Carel Fabritius. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Delft_School_(painting). . A View of Delft, with a Musical Instrument Seller's Stall is a 1652 painting by Carel Fabritius. It is an oil painting on canvas of 20.9 by 35.7 cm (8.2 by 14.1 in) of a cityscape of Delft. The work has been in the collection of the National Gallery in London since 1922. The unusual perspective suggests that it may have been intended to have been displayed on a curved surface at the back of a perspective box. Fabritius is documented to have worked on these. The place shown can be identified in modern Delft.[citation needed]. A View of Delft, with a Musical Instrument Seller's Stall is a 1652 painting by Carel Fabritius. It is an oil painting on canvas of 20.9 by 35.7 cm (8.2 by 14.1 in) of a cityscape of Delft. The work has been in the collection of the National Gallery in London since 1922. The unusual perspective suggests that it may have been intended to have been displayed on a curved surface at the back of a perspective box. Fabritius is documented to have worked on these. The place shown can be identified in modern Delft.[citation needed]. 
View of the Garden of the Villa Medici. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . View of the Garden of the Villa Medici is a small painting by Diego Velázquez of the garden at the Villa Medici in Rome, with some figures standing watching an unseen event, possibly the works behind the scaffolding in the middle of the building in the background. It is now in the Prado. There is some controversy as to its date, with some scholars believing it was made during the artist's first trip to Italy (1629-31) and others feeling its advanced technique must mean it belongs to his second trip (1649-51). There is another version with similar features and the same title, and the two are of similar size and vary little in their execution and manner of depicting the garden.. View of the Garden of the Villa Medici is a small painting by Diego Velázquez of the garden at the Villa Medici in Rome, with some figures standing watching an unseen event, possibly the works behind the scaffolding in the middle of the building in the background. It is now in the Prado. There is some controversy as to its date, with some scholars believing it was made during the artist's first trip to Italy (1629-31) and others feeling its advanced technique must mean it belongs to his second trip (1649-51). There is another version with similar features and the same title, and the two are of similar size and vary little in their execution and manner of depicting the garden. Landscape painting was rare in Spanish painting of this time, with most commissions being religious works or portraits, and so Velázquez was somewhat cut off from the mainstream of French and Italian landscape art as practised by Claude Lorrain or Poussin for example), making his use of an oil sketch rather than an easel-painted work unusual. Such a revolution put him 200 years ahead of the Impressionist painters in choosing landscape as a topic, then showing interest in light, nature and their interconnectedness, and finally in his pictorial technique (abandoning detail to stain rather than paint, with little touches of the brush better appreciated stood further back from the painting than too close to it). Velázquez thus showed that he was not only a good painter for his mastery of technique but also his innovation, ahead of its time and nationally and internationally revolutionising other painters' way of painting.. 
The Sock Knitter. Author Name: Grace Cossington Smith. . . The Sock Knitter is a 1915 painting by the Australian artist Grace Cossington Smith. The painting depicts a woman, believed to be the artist's sister, knitting a sock. It was the first work by Cossington Smith to be exhibited and has been "acclaimed as the first post-impressionist painting to be exhibited in Australia."The painting was acquired by the Art Gallery of New South Wales in 1960.. The Sock Knitter is a 1915 painting by the Australian artist Grace Cossington Smith. The painting depicts a woman, believed to be the artist's sister, knitting a sock. It was the first work by Cossington Smith to be exhibited and has been "acclaimed as the first post-impressionist painting to be exhibited in Australia." The work was included in the Follow the Flag exhibition held at the National Gallery of Victoria in 2015. Exhibition material stated that The Sock Knitter "has come to symbolise Australian women’s contribution to the [First World War] effort, which included knitting more than 1.3 million pairs of socks". The painting was acquired by the Art Gallery of New South Wales in 1960.. 
Head of Christ. Author Name: Cascalls, Jaume. . . The Head of Christ is a Jesus head conserved at the National Art Museum of Catalonia.. The Head of Christ is a Jesus head conserved at the National Art Museum of Catalonia.. 
The Fall of the Rebel Angels. Author Name: Pieter Bruegel the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_and_Flemish_Renaissance_painting. . The Fall of the Rebel Angels is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in 1562. It is currently held and exhibited at the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium in Brussels.. The Fall of the Rebel Angels is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in 1562. It is currently held and exhibited at the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium in Brussels.. 
Above and Below. Author Name: Maya Lin. . . Above and Below is an installation by American artist Maya Lin, the designer of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington, D.C. It is on display at and owned by the Indianapolis Museum of Art located in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. The artwork was inspired by underground water systems in Indiana.. Above and Below is an installation by American artist Maya Lin, the designer of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington, D.C. It is on display at and owned by the Indianapolis Museum of Art located in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. The artwork was inspired by underground water systems in Indiana.. 
Portrait of Pope Leo X. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Pope Leo X with two Cardinals is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance master Raphael, c. 1517. It is housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence.In contrast to works depicting classical, idealised Madonnas and figures from antiquity, this portrait shows the sitter in a realistic manner. The Pope is depicted with the weight of late middle age, while his sight appears to be strained. The painting sets up a series of visual contradictions between appearance and reality, intended by Raphael to reflect the unrest of a period of turmoil for the papacy. Martin Luther had recently challenged papal authority, listing among other grievances, Leo X's method of selling indulgences to fund work on St Peter's.. The Portrait of Pope Leo X with two Cardinals is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance master Raphael, c. 1517. It is housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence. In contrast to works depicting classical, idealised Madonnas and figures from antiquity, this portrait shows the sitter in a realistic manner. The Pope is depicted with the weight of late middle age, while his sight appears to be strained. The painting sets up a series of visual contradictions between appearance and reality, intended by Raphael to reflect the unrest of a period of turmoil for the papacy. Martin Luther had recently challenged papal authority, listing among other grievances, Leo X's method of selling indulgences to fund work on St Peter's. The pommel on top of the Pope's chair evokes the symbolic abacus balls of the Medici family, while the illuminated Bible open on the table has been identified as the Hamilton Bible. The cardinals are usually identified as Giulio di Giuliano de' Medici and Luigi de' Rossi.. 
Doña Antonia de Ipeñarrieta y Galdós and Her Son Don Luis. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Doña Antonia de Ipeñarrieta y Galdós and Her Son Don Luis is a 1634 portrait by Diego Velázquez, now in the Prado Museum. Doña Antonia and her son Luis are shown standing, captured in an elegant melancholy. The woman uses the chair to support herself, to emphasize her social status in the Court, where she had the right to sit. According to different studies of the canvas, it is believed that the child's figure could have been added afterwards.. Doña Antonia de Ipeñarrieta y Galdós and Her Son Don Luis is a 1634 portrait by Diego Velázquez, now in the Prado Museum. Doña Antonia and her son Luis are shown standing, captured in an elegant melancholy. The woman uses the chair to support herself, to emphasize her social status in the Court, where she had the right to sit. According to different studies of the canvas, it is believed that the child's figure could have been added afterwards. In this portrait, Velázquez begins to reinterpret long strokes influenced by Juan Pantoja de la Cruz, giving more expression and delicacy, expressing her natural and easy manner, and capturing a golden light with inexplicable technique. In any case, the experts consider the portrait of her husband to be superior.. 
Madonna of the Rose Garden. Author Name: Besozzo, Michelino Molinari Da. . . The Madonna of the Rose Garden (Italian: Madonna del Roseto) is an International Gothic painting attributed to Michelino da Besozzo or Stefano da Verona. Dating to c. 1420–1435, it is currently housed in the Castelvecchio Museum of Verona, northern Italy.. The Madonna of the Rose Garden (Italian: Madonna del Roseto) is an International Gothic painting attributed to Michelino da Besozzo or Stefano da Verona. Dating to c. 1420–1435, it is currently housed in the Castelvecchio Museum of Verona, northern Italy.. 
Westward the Course of Empire Takes Its Way. Author Name: Emanuel Leutze. . . Westward the Course of Empire Takes Its Way (also known as Westward Ho) is a 20-by-30-foot (6.1 m × 9.1 m) painted mural currently displayed behind the western staircase of the House of Representatives chamber in the United States Capitol Building. The mural was painted by Emanuel Gottlieb Leutze in 1861 and symbolizes Manifest Destiny, the belief that the United States was destined for Western exploration and expansion originating from the initial colonies along the Atlantic seaboard to the Pacific Ocean. A study measuring 33 1⁄4 by 43 3⁄8 inches (84.5 cm × 110.2 cm) hangs in the Smithsonian American Art Museum.. Westward the Course of Empire Takes Its Way (also known as Westward Ho) is a 20-by-30-foot (6.1 m × 9.1 m) painted mural currently displayed behind the western staircase of the House of Representatives chamber in the United States Capitol Building. The mural was painted by Emanuel Gottlieb Leutze in 1861 and symbolizes Manifest Destiny, the belief that the United States was destined for Western exploration and expansion originating from the initial colonies along the Atlantic seaboard to the Pacific Ocean. A study measuring 33 1⁄4 by 43 3⁄8 inches (84.5 cm × 110.2 cm) hangs in the Smithsonian American Art Museum.. 
Separation of Light from Darkness. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Separation of Light from Darkness is, from the perspective of the Genesis chronology, the first of nine central panels that run along the center of Michelangelo's Sistine Chapel ceiling and which depict scenes from the Book of Genesis. Michelangelo probably completed this panel in the summer of 1512, the last year of the Sistine ceiling project. It is one of five smaller scenes that alternate with four larger scenes that run along the center of the Sistine ceiling. The Separation of Light from Darkness is based on verses 3–5 from the first chapter of the Book of Genesis:. The Separation of Light from Darkness is, from the perspective of the Genesis chronology, the first of nine central panels that run along the center of Michelangelo's Sistine Chapel ceiling and which depict scenes from the Book of Genesis. Michelangelo probably completed this panel in the summer of 1512, the last year of the Sistine ceiling project. It is one of five smaller scenes that alternate with four larger scenes that run along the center of the Sistine ceiling. The Separation of Light from Darkness is based on verses 3–5 from the first chapter of the Book of Genesis: Although in terms of the Genesis chronology it is the first of nine central panels along the Sistine ceiling, the Separation of Light from Darkness was the last of the nine panels painted by Michelangelo. Michelangelo painted the Sistine ceiling in two stages. Between May 1508 and the summer of 1511, he completed the "entrance half" of the Sistine chapel and ended this stage by painting the Creation of Eve and the scenes flanking this central panel. After an idle period of about 6 months, he painted the "altar half," starting with the Creation of Adam, between the winter of 1511 and October 1512.. 
Salon Pedal. Author Name: Alexandre de Riquer i Ynglada. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Art_Nouveau. . Salon Pedal is a color lithograph on paper designed in 1897 by the Catalan artist Alexandre de Riquer. The print's design evokes the decorative style seen in Modernisme art. The artwork is in the collection of Museu Nacional d'Art de Catalunya, in Barcelona.. Salon Pedal is a color lithograph on paper designed in 1897 by the Catalan artist Alexandre de Riquer. The print's design evokes the decorative style seen in Modernisme art. The artwork is in the collection of Museu Nacional d'Art de Catalunya, in Barcelona.. 
Dovedale by Moonlight. Author Name: Joseph Wright. . . Dovedale by Moonlight is one of five paintings by Joseph Wright of Derby which uses the picturesque valley of Dovedale as its subject. These paintings were sometimes made as pairs with one showing the view by day and the other by moonlight. Wright admitted that he had not observed this scene directly, "Moon lights & fire lights are but a sort of work with me for I cant with impunity go out at night and study the former, & the latter I have seen but once, and at a time too, when I thought not of painting such effects.". Dovedale by Moonlight is one of five paintings by Joseph Wright of Derby which uses the picturesque valley of Dovedale as its subject. These paintings were sometimes made as pairs with one showing the view by day and the other by moonlight. Wright admitted that he had not observed this scene directly, "Moon lights & fire lights are but a sort of work with me for I cant with impunity go out at night and study the former, & the latter I have seen but once, and at a time too, when I thought not of painting such effects.". 
Cabaret Scene. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Cabaret Scene (1922) is a painting by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dalí. This was a unique cubist experiment that came between Dalí's early impressionist work and the classic surrealist technique he would later develop. Dalí was inspired by Pablo Picasso after he got expelled from the School of Fine Arts in Spain. His inspiration was shown in his paintings, such as this one.. Cabaret Scene (1922) is a painting by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dalí. This was a unique cubist experiment that came between Dalí's early impressionist work and the classic surrealist technique he would later develop. Dalí was inspired by Pablo Picasso after he got expelled from the School of Fine Arts in Spain. His inspiration was shown in his paintings, such as this one.. 
Punishment of the Rebels. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Punishment of the Rebels is a fresco by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli, executed in 1480–1482 and located in the Sistine Chapel, Rome.. The Punishment of the Rebels is a fresco by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli, executed in 1480–1482 and located in the Sistine Chapel, Rome.. 
The Seven Deadly Sins and the Four Last Things. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . The Seven Deadly Sins and the Four Last Things is a painting that has traditionally been attributed to Hieronymus Bosch, completed around 1500 or later. Since 1898 its authenticity has been questioned several times. The painting is oil on wood panels and is presented in a series of circular images.At the centre of the large circle, which is said to represent the eye of God, is a "pupil" in which Christ can be seen emerging from his tomb. Below this image is the Latin inscription Cave Cave Deus Videt ("Beware, Beware, God Sees").. The Seven Deadly Sins and the Four Last Things is a painting that has traditionally been attributed to Hieronymus Bosch, completed around 1500 or later. Since 1898 its authenticity has been questioned several times. The painting is oil on wood panels and is presented in a series of circular images. Four small circles, detailing the four last things — "Death of the Sinner", "Judgment", "Hell" and "Glory" — surround a larger circle in which the seven deadly sins are depicted: wrath at the bottom, then (proceeding clockwise) envy, greed, gluttony, sloth, extravagance (later replaced with lust), and pride, in scenes from life rather than in allegorical representations of the sins. At the centre of the large circle, which is said to represent the eye of God, is a "pupil" in which Christ can be seen emerging from his tomb. Below this image is the Latin inscription Cave Cave Deus Videt ("Beware, Beware, God Sees"). Above and below the central image are inscription in Latin of Deuteronomy 32:28-29, containing the lines "For they are a nation void of counsel, neither is there any understanding in them", above, and "O that they were wise, that they understood this, that they would consider their latter end!" below.. 
The Finding of the Saviour in the Temple. Author Name: William Holman Hunt. . . The Finding of the Saviour in the Temple (1854–60) is a painting by William Holman Hunt intended as an ethnographically accurate version of the subject traditionally known as "Christ Among the Doctors", an illustration of the child Jesus debating the interpretation of the scripture with learned rabbis. The passage illustrated is from the Gospel of Luke, 2:41, which states:. The Finding of the Saviour in the Temple (1854–60) is a painting by William Holman Hunt intended as an ethnographically accurate version of the subject traditionally known as "Christ Among the Doctors", an illustration of the child Jesus debating the interpretation of the scripture with learned rabbis. The passage illustrated is from the Gospel of Luke, 2:41, which states: Hunt depicts the moment at which Mary and Joseph find Jesus, while the rabbis in the temple are reacting in various contrasting ways to his discourse, some intrigued, others angry or dismissive. This depiction of contrasting reactions is part of the tradition of the subject, as evidenced in Albrecht Dürer's much earlier version. Hunt would also have known Bernardino Luini's version of the subject in the National Gallery. At the time this was ascribed to Leonardo da Vinci.. 
Melisande. Author Name: Stokes, Marianne. . . Melisande is the name of a painting by the Austrian painter Marianne Stokes. It was painted with tempera on canvas, 1895-1898. It is currently at the Wallraf-Richartz Museum in Cologne, Germany.. Melisande is the name of a painting by the Austrian painter Marianne Stokes. It was painted with tempera on canvas, 1895-1898. It is currently at the Wallraf-Richartz Museum in Cologne, Germany.. 
Bust on the grave of Joseph Stalin. Author Name: Tomsky, Nikolai. . . The year 1970 was marked by many events that left an imprint on the history of Soviet and Russian fine arts.. The year 1970 was marked by many events that left an imprint on the history of Soviet and Russian fine arts.. 
Chinese Girl. Author Name: Vladimir Tretchikoff. . . The Chinese Girl (often popularly known as The Green Lady) is a 1952 painting by Vladimir Tretchikoff. It became one of the world's most popular paintings when made into prints in the 1950s and 1960s, and is one of the world's best-selling art reproductions of the twentieth century. The painting is of a Chinese girl and is best known for the unusual skin tone used for her face—a blue-green colour, which gives the painting its popular name "The Green Lady." Though Tretchikoff maintained that the first version of this painting had been destroyed in Cape Town and he painted a new version during his 1953 tour of the US, researchers have found no proof of this claim.. The Chinese Girl (often popularly known as The Green Lady) is a 1952 painting by Vladimir Tretchikoff. It became one of the world's most popular paintings when made into prints in the 1950s and 1960s, and is one of the world's best-selling art reproductions of the twentieth century. The painting is of a Chinese girl and is best known for the unusual skin tone used for her face—a blue-green colour, which gives the painting its popular name "The Green Lady." Though Tretchikoff maintained that the first version of this painting had been destroyed in Cape Town and he painted a new version during his 1953 tour of the US, researchers have found no proof of this claim. The original sold for almost $1.5 million (£982,050) at Bonhams auction house in London on 20 March 2013. It was purchased by British jeweller Laurence Graff. Since 30 November the same year, it has been on public display at Delaire Graff Estate near Stellenbosch, South Africa.. 
Bouquet près de la fenêtre. Author Name: Marc Chagall. . Author Movement: *. . Bouquet près de la fenêtre (Bouquet by the Window) is an oil on canvas painting by Marc Chagall dated 1959-1960. Franz Meyer, Chagall's biographer (and son-in-law), called it one of Chagall's finest flower paintings.The lovers in the painting are Chagall and his second wife Valentina Brodsky. His first wife and the great love of his life, Bella Rosenfeld, floats in the upper-left as a ghostly apparition dressed in bridal white. The view in the foreground is of Saint-Paul-de-Vence, near where Chagall settled the last four decades of his life.. Bouquet près de la fenêtre (Bouquet by the Window) is an oil on canvas painting by Marc Chagall dated 1959-1960. Franz Meyer, Chagall's biographer (and son-in-law), called it one of Chagall's finest flower paintings. The lovers in the painting are Chagall and his second wife Valentina Brodsky. His first wife and the great love of his life, Bella Rosenfeld, floats in the upper-left as a ghostly apparition dressed in bridal white. The view in the foreground is of Saint-Paul-de-Vence, near where Chagall settled the last four decades of his life. The painting fetched £3,218,500 at a Christie's auction in London on 23 June 2015.. 
The Serenade. Author Name: Judith Leyster. . . The Serenade is an oil painting by Judith Leyster in the collection of the Rijksmuseum. It was attributed for centuries to Frans Hals until Wilhelm von Bode saw it in the Six collection in 1883. He noticed the prominent "J" in the signature, and attributed it to Jan Hals. This is one of seven paintings first properly attributed to Leyster by Hofstede de Groot ten years later in 1893.. The Serenade is an oil painting by Judith Leyster in the collection of the Rijksmuseum. It was attributed for centuries to Frans Hals until Wilhelm von Bode saw it in the Six collection in 1883. He noticed the prominent "J" in the signature, and attributed it to Jan Hals. This is one of seven paintings first properly attributed to Leyster by Hofstede de Groot ten years later in 1893.. 
La velata. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . La velata, or La donna velata ("The woman with the veil"), is one of the most famous portraits by the Italian Renaissance painter Raphael.[citation needed]The subject of the painting appears in another portrait, La Fornarina, and is traditionally identified as the fornarina (bakeress) Margherita Luti, Raphael's Roman mistress.One of Raphael's distinctions is his attention to the clothing of the subjects of his portraits, this one depicting opulence.. La velata, or La donna velata ("The woman with the veil"), is one of the most famous portraits by the Italian Renaissance painter Raphael.[citation needed] The subject of the painting appears in another portrait, La Fornarina, and is traditionally identified as the fornarina (bakeress) Margherita Luti, Raphael's Roman mistress. One of Raphael's distinctions is his attention to the clothing of the subjects of his portraits, this one depicting opulence.. 
Wivenhoe Park, Essex. Author Name: John Constable. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . Wivenhoe Park is a painting of an English landscape park, the estate of the Rebow family, by the English Romantic painter, John Constable (1776–1837).John Constable was born in Suffolk, and is known principally for his landscape paintings, especially the landscapes of the countryside where he spent his childhood. His paintings are now considered among the most popular and valuable in British art.. Wivenhoe Park is a painting of an English landscape park, the estate of the Rebow family, by the English Romantic painter, John Constable (1776–1837). John Constable was born in Suffolk, and is known principally for his landscape paintings, especially the landscapes of the countryside where he spent his childhood. His paintings are now considered among the most popular and valuable in British art.. 
Tree of Life. Author Name: Gupta, Manav. . . The Tree of Life is a large three-dimensional mural by artist Manav Gupta, located across the interior staircase of the Bharti Airtel office building in Gurgaon, India. Covering approximately 5,000 sq ft of facade space and 10,000 sq ft of total painted surface, it is the tallest and largest indoor staircase mural. While deploying site specific collaborative art practice of allowing more than 1000 employees of the office building, to participate in the experience of painting in the initial phase, the artist conceptualised the creation as a public art project.. The Tree of Life is a large three-dimensional mural by artist Manav Gupta, located across the interior staircase of the Bharti Airtel office building in Gurgaon, India. Covering approximately 5,000 sq ft of facade space and 10,000 sq ft of total painted surface, it is the tallest and largest indoor staircase mural. While deploying site specific collaborative art practice of allowing more than 1000 employees of the office building, to participate in the experience of painting in the initial phase, the artist conceptualised the creation as a public art project.. 
Kiepenkerl. Author Name: Jeff Koons. . . Kiepenkerl is a modern sculpture by Jeff Koons. It is constructed of polished cast stainless steel.Cast in 1987, it is an edition of 3.  An example is in the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.It refers to the traveling peddlers statue in Münster, Germany.. Kiepenkerl is a modern sculpture by Jeff Koons. It is constructed of polished cast stainless steel. Cast in 1987, it is an edition of 3. An example is in the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. It refers to the traveling peddlers statue in Münster, Germany.. 
The Great Double. Author Name: Penalba, Alicia. . . The Great Double is a bronze sculpture by the Argentine artist Alicia Penalba (1913-1982). One statue named Le Grand Double (1962-1964) is on display in the sculpture garden of the Dutch Kröller-Müller Museum. Another (1972) is on display outside the MGIC building in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.. The Great Double is a bronze sculpture by the Argentine artist Alicia Penalba (1913-1982). One statue named Le Grand Double (1962-1964) is on display in the sculpture garden of the Dutch Kröller-Müller Museum. Another (1972) is on display outside the MGIC building in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.. 
No. 6. Author Name: Mark Rothko. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . No. 6 (Violet, Green and Red) is a painting by the Russian-American Abstract expressionist artist Mark Rothko. It was painted in 1951.In common with Rothko's other works from this period, No. 6 consists of large expanses of colour delineated by uneven, hazy shades.. No. 6 (Violet, Green and Red) is a painting by the Russian-American Abstract expressionist artist Mark Rothko. It was painted in 1951.In common with Rothko's other works from this period, No. 6 consists of large expanses of colour delineated by uneven, hazy shades.. 
The Crossing of the Red Sea. Author Name: Biagio D’antonio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Crossing of the Red Sea is a fresco executed in 1481–1482 and located in the Sistine Chapel, Rome. Of uncertain attribution, it has been assigned to one between Domenico Ghirlandaio, Biagio d'Antonio or Cosimo Rosselli.. The Crossing of the Red Sea is a fresco executed in 1481–1482 and located in the Sistine Chapel, Rome. Of uncertain attribution, it has been assigned to one between Domenico Ghirlandaio, Biagio d'Antonio or Cosimo Rosselli.. 
The Consecration of Saint Augustine. Author Name: Huguet, Jaume. . . The Saint Augustine Altarpiece is a Catalan Gothic painting in egg tempera by Jaume Huguet and Pau Vergós made between 1462 and 1475. The long duration of the work was caused by financial reasons, and it is assumed that work was begun by Huguet and finished by other members of his workshop, in particular Pau Vergós. The altarpiece was commissioned by the guild of tanners to be placed on the altar of the Augustinian friary of Sant Agustí Vell ("Old St Augustine") in Barcelona, Spain. The panel measures 250 x 193 x 9.5 cm and has been in the Museu Nacional d'Art de Catalunya in Barcelona since 1927.. The Saint Augustine Altarpiece is a Catalan Gothic painting in egg tempera by Jaume Huguet and Pau Vergós made between 1462 and 1475. The long duration of the work was caused by financial reasons, and it is assumed that work was begun by Huguet and finished by other members of his workshop, in particular Pau Vergós. The altarpiece was commissioned by the guild of tanners to be placed on the altar of the Augustinian friary of Sant Agustí Vell ("Old St Augustine") in Barcelona, Spain. The panel measures 250 x 193 x 9.5 cm and has been in the Museu Nacional d'Art de Catalunya in Barcelona since 1927. Comparisons with similar works that survive complete suggest that there were originally several more panels than the eight that now survive, seven in the MNAC and one in the Museum Marés, also in Barcelona. They would have been framed in an elaborate gilded wooden setting as a retable behind the main altar. The grandeur of the work makes it the most important painting of the fifteenth century in Catalonia.. 
Garden of the Hospital in Arles. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Hospital at Arles is the subject of two paintings that Vincent van Gogh made of the hospital in which he stayed in December 1888 and again in January 1889. The hospital is located in Arles in southern France. One of the paintings is of the central garden between four buildings titled Garden of the Hospital in Arles (also known as the Courtyard of the Hospital at Arles); the other painting is of a ward within the hospital titled Ward of the Hospital in Arles. Van Gogh also painted a Portrait of Dr. Félix Rey who was his physician while in the hospital.. Hospital at Arles is the subject of two paintings that Vincent van Gogh made of the hospital in which he stayed in December 1888 and again in January 1889. The hospital is located in Arles in southern France. One of the paintings is of the central garden between four buildings titled Garden of the Hospital in Arles (also known as the Courtyard of the Hospital at Arles); the other painting is of a ward within the hospital titled Ward of the Hospital in Arles. Van Gogh also painted a Portrait of Dr. Félix Rey who was his physician while in the hospital.. 
Saint Jerome in Penitence. Author Name: Titian. . . Saint Jerome in Penitence is a c. 1552 painting by Titian.. Saint Jerome in Penitence is a c. 1552 painting by Titian.. 
Dulle Griet. Author Name: Pieter Bruegel the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_and_Flemish_Renaissance_painting. . Dulle Griet (anglicized as Dull Gret), also known as Mad Meg, is a figure of Flemish folklore who is the subject of a 1562 oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder. The painting depicts a peasant woman, Mad Meg, who leads an army of women to pillage Hell, and is currently held and exhibited at the Museum Mayer van den Bergh in Antwerp.. Dulle Griet (anglicized as Dull Gret), also known as Mad Meg, is a figure of Flemish folklore who is the subject of a 1562 oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder. The painting depicts a peasant woman, Mad Meg, who leads an army of women to pillage Hell, and is currently held and exhibited at the Museum Mayer van den Bergh in Antwerp.. 
Dynamism of a Speeding Horse + Houses. Author Name: Umberto Boccioni. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Futurism. . Dynamism of a speeding Horse + Houses is a sculpture from Umberto Boccioni; realized in 1914-1915 is now part of the Peggy Guggenheim Collection, Venice. With this artwork the artist aims at representing his idea on the concept of space, according to which not being able to see the distance means not to be able to perceive it. As a consequence, a spinning horse and some houses in the background look to the observer as single dynamic unity.. Dynamism of a speeding Horse + Houses is a sculpture from Umberto Boccioni; realized in 1914-1915 is now part of the Peggy Guggenheim Collection, Venice. With this artwork the artist aims at representing his idea on the concept of space, according to which not being able to see the distance means not to be able to perceive it. As a consequence, a spinning horse and some houses in the background look to the observer as single dynamic unity. Umberto Boccioni sculpted 'Dynamism of a speeding Horse + Houses' after publishing his manifesto on futurist sculpture technical rules. In this document the artist encourages the use of several and different materials, the idea of an interpenetration among subject and background and the refuse of closed forms.. 
The Laundress. Author Name: Jean-Baptiste Greuze. . . The Laundress (French: La Blanchisseuse) is a 1761 genre painting by French artist Jean-Baptiste Greuze (1725-1805). Its development was influenced by Dutch cabinet painting and the imagery of the laundress made popular through a literary style known as genre poissard. The Laundress was one of fourteen works exhibited by Greuze at the Salon of 1761 and was part of the collection of Greuze's patron, Ange Laurent Lalive de Jully. The painting was mostly unknown for more than two centuries as it was privately held by various Swedish art collectors and rarely seen until it was acquired by the Getty Museum in 1983.. The Laundress (French: La Blanchisseuse) is a 1761 genre painting by French artist Jean-Baptiste Greuze (1725-1805). Its development was influenced by Dutch cabinet painting and the imagery of the laundress made popular through a literary style known as genre poissard. The Laundress was one of fourteen works exhibited by Greuze at the Salon of 1761 and was part of the collection of Greuze's patron, Ange Laurent Lalive de Jully. The painting was mostly unknown for more than two centuries as it was privately held by various Swedish art collectors and rarely seen until it was acquired by the Getty Museum in 1983.. 
Portrait of Camilla Gonzaga and Her Three Sons. Author Name: Parmigianino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . Portrait of Camilla Gonzaga and Her Three Sons is a painting attributed to the Italian Mannerist artist Parmigianino and others, executed around 1539-1540 and housed in the Museo del Prado, Madrid, Spain. It forms a pair with another painting in the Prado, the Portrait of Pier Maria Rossi di San Secondo, Camilla's husband, a painting which is unanimously assigned to Parmigianino.. Portrait of Camilla Gonzaga and Her Three Sons is a painting attributed to the Italian Mannerist artist Parmigianino and others, executed around 1539-1540 and housed in the Museo del Prado, Madrid, Spain. It forms a pair with another painting in the Prado, the Portrait of Pier Maria Rossi di San Secondo, Camilla's husband, a painting which is unanimously assigned to Parmigianino.. 
Miss Amelia Van Buren. Author Name: Thomas Eakins. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Miss Amelia Van Buren or Portrait of Amelia C. Van Buren is a ca. 1891 painting by the American artist Thomas Eakins (1844-1916), now in The Phillips Collection. It depicts Amelia Van Buren (c. 1856-1942), an artist who studied with Eakins, and was called "one of his most gifted pupils." The painting is considered one of Eakins's finest works.. Miss Amelia Van Buren or Portrait of Amelia C. Van Buren is a ca. 1891 painting by the American artist Thomas Eakins (1844-1916), now in The Phillips Collection. It depicts Amelia Van Buren (c. 1856-1942), an artist who studied with Eakins, and was called "one of his most gifted pupils." The painting is considered one of Eakins's finest works.. 
Portrait of a Lady known as Smeralda Brandini. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Smeralda Brandini is a tempera on panel painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Sandro Botticelli of about 1475, in the Victoria and Albert Museum, London (museum no. CAI.100).. The Portrait of Smeralda Brandini is a tempera on panel painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Sandro Botticelli of about 1475, in the Victoria and Albert Museum, London (museum no. CAI.100).. 
Polyphony. Author Name: Weiner, Egon. . . Polyphony is a public artwork by Austrian artist Egon Weiner located on the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee campus, which is in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States.. Polyphony is a public artwork by Austrian artist Egon Weiner located on the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee campus, which is in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States.. 
The Magpie on the Gallows. Author Name: Pieter Bruegel the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_and_Flemish_Renaissance_painting. . The Magpie on the Gallows is a 1568 oil-on-wood panel painting by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder.The painting shows a woodland clearing containing three peasants dancing to a bagpipes, next to a gallows upon which a magpie is perched. The gallows stands in the centre of the picture, dividing the painting in two, a Mannerist composition with the right side more "open" and left more "closed", with the magpie close to the exact centre of the painting. The gallows appears to form an "impossible object", similar to a Penrose triangle, with the bases of the posts seemingly planted side by side, but with the right side of the cross-member receding into the distance, and contradictory lighting.. The Magpie on the Gallows is a 1568 oil-on-wood panel painting by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder. The painting shows a woodland clearing containing three peasants dancing to a bagpipes, next to a gallows upon which a magpie is perched. The gallows stands in the centre of the picture, dividing the painting in two, a Mannerist composition with the right side more "open" and left more "closed", with the magpie close to the exact centre of the painting. The gallows appears to form an "impossible object", similar to a Penrose triangle, with the bases of the posts seemingly planted side by side, but with the right side of the cross-member receding into the distance, and contradictory lighting. Another magpie sits on a rock at the base of the gallows, near the skull of an animal. The only people occupy the left foreground: a man defecates in the shadows to the left, while others watch the three dancers. To the right stands a cross with a watermill behind. The background opens on to a view of a river valley, with a town to the left and castle on a rocky crag above, and a tower on a rock outcrop to the right, and distant hills and the sky beyond. Behind the dancers rise two intertwined trees, a motif used by Bruegel in an earlier drawing of bears playing in a forest. An impression of depth is given by the progression from dense brown tones dominating of the foreground, through green midtones in the middle distance, to light blues and greys for the background. Bruegel's painting was created the year after Fernando Álvarez de Toledo, 3rd Duke of Alba, arrived in the Netherlands, sent by the Spanish king, Philip II to suppress the Dutch Revolt. The gallows may represent the threat of execution of those preaching the new Protestant doctrine, and the painting may allude to several Netherlandish proverbs. There is a direct allusion to the Netherlandish proverbs of dancing or shitting on the gallows, meaning a mocking of the state. It also alludes to the belief that magpies are gossips, and that gossip leads to hangings. And that the way to the gallows leads through pleasant meadows. It is not known why or for whom the picture was painted. Its date of 1568 makes this painting one of Bruegel's last works before his death in 1569; indeed, perhaps his final work. Bruegel asked his wife to burn some of his pictures on his death, but told her to keep the Magpie on the Gallows for herself. It is now held by the Hessisches Landesmuseum in Darmstadt.. 
Large Torso, Arch. Author Name: Henry Moore. . Author Movement: Bronze Sculpture, Modernism. . Large Torso, Arch is a public art work by English artist Henry Moore located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The bronze sculpture is an abstract, organic bone-like archway; it is installed on the lawn.. Large Torso, Arch is a public art work by English artist Henry Moore located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The bronze sculpture is an abstract, organic bone-like archway; it is installed on the lawn.. 
Bacchus. Author Name: Leonardo da Vinci. . . Bacchus, formerly Saint John the Baptist, is a painting in the Musée du Louvre, Paris, France, based on a drawing by the Italian Renaissance artist Leonardo da Vinci. It is presumed to have been executed by an unknown follower, perhaps in Leonardo's workshop. Sydney J. Freedberg assigns the drawing to Leonardo's second Milan period. Among the Lombard painters who have been suggested as possible authors are Cesare da Sesto, Marco d'Oggiono, Francesco Melzi, and Cesare Bernazzano. The painting shows a male figure with garlanded head and leopard skin, seated in an idyllic landscape. He points with his right hand off to his left, and with his left hand grasps his thyrsus and also points down to earth.. Bacchus, formerly Saint John the Baptist, is a painting in the Musée du Louvre, Paris, France, based on a drawing by the Italian Renaissance artist Leonardo da Vinci. It is presumed to have been executed by an unknown follower, perhaps in Leonardo's workshop. Sydney J. Freedberg assigns the drawing to Leonardo's second Milan period. Among the Lombard painters who have been suggested as possible authors are Cesare da Sesto, Marco d'Oggiono, Francesco Melzi, and Cesare Bernazzano. The painting shows a male figure with garlanded head and leopard skin, seated in an idyllic landscape. He points with his right hand off to his left, and with his left hand grasps his thyrsus and also points down to earth. The painting originally depicted John the Baptist. In the late 17th century, between the years 1683 and 1693, it was overpainted and altered to serve as Bacchus. Cassiano dal Pozzo remarked of the painting in its former state, which he saw at Fontainebleau in 1625, that it had neither devotion, decorum nor similitude, the suavely beautiful, youthful and slightly androgynous Giovannino was so at variance with artistic conventions in portraying the Baptist – neither the older ascetic prophet nor the Florentine baby Giovannino, but a type of Leonardo's invention, of a disconcerting, somewhat ambiguous sensuality, familiar in Leonardo's half-length and upward-pointing Saint John the Baptist, also in the Louvre. The overpainting transformed the image of St. John into one of a pagan deity, by converting the long-handled cross-like staff of the Baptist to a Bacchic thyrsus and adding a vine wreath. The fur robe is the legacy of John the Baptist, but has been overpainted with leopard-spots relating, like the wreath, to Bacchus, the Roman god of wine and intoxication.. 
The Tiger Hunt. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Tiger Hunt is a large painting by Peter Paul Rubens, featuring a hunt for a tiger. It dates to between 1615 and 1616 and is one of the four hunting paintings, commissioned by Maximilian I, Elector of Bavaria to decorate the old Schleissheim Palace. The cycle was seized during the Napoleonic Wars and this painting is now in Musée des Beaux-Arts de Rennes.. The Tiger Hunt is a large painting by Peter Paul Rubens, featuring a hunt for a tiger. It dates to between 1615 and 1616 and is one of the four hunting paintings, commissioned by Maximilian I, Elector of Bavaria to decorate the old Schleissheim Palace. The cycle was seized during the Napoleonic Wars and this painting is now in Musée des Beaux-Arts de Rennes.. 
Portrait of a Musician. Author Name: Leonardo da Vinci. . . Portrait of a Musician is an oil on wood painting attributed to Leonardo da Vinci by some scholars. It was probably painted in 1490.The man in the painting was at one time thought to be Franchino Gaffurio, who was the maestro di cappella of the Milanese Cathedral. Although some believe it to be a portrait of Gaffurio, others think the man is anonymous. The piece of paper he holds is at least one part of a musical score; it has notes written on it. The painting was greatly restored and repainted, and Leonardo probably left the portrait unfinished but close to completion.. Portrait of a Musician is an oil on wood painting attributed to Leonardo da Vinci by some scholars. It was probably painted in 1490. The man in the painting was at one time thought to be Franchino Gaffurio, who was the maestro di cappella of the Milanese Cathedral. Although some believe it to be a portrait of Gaffurio, others think the man is anonymous. The piece of paper he holds is at least one part of a musical score; it has notes written on it. The painting was greatly restored and repainted, and Leonardo probably left the portrait unfinished but close to completion. The man is positioned in a three-quarter position and he is holding a partition sheet. The musician stares at something outside the spectator's field of vision. Compared to the detailed face of the musician, the red hat, his tunic and his hair seem to be painted by a completely other painter. Art historians have recognized the fine art of da Vinci in the young man's face, though the partition sheet and his hand may have been added onto the original work. Siegfried Woldhek, a Dutch illustrator, has claimed that 'Portrait of a Musician' is one of three self-portraits by Leonardo.. 
The Funeral of Phocion. Author Name: Nicolas Poussin. . Author Movement: Baroque. . The Funeral of Phocion is a 1648 landscape painting, also known as The Burial of Phocion, Landscape with the Funeral of Phocion and Landscape with the Body of Phocion Carried out of Athens, by the French artist Nicolas Poussin. Phocion was an Athenian statesman from the 4th century BC.Three versions of the painting are known. These are now housed in The Louvre, Paris; National Museum Cardiff and the collections of the Glass House in New Canaan, Connecticut, United States.In the same year Poussin painted a companion piece to The Funeral of Phocion, Landscape with the Ashes of Phocion.. The Funeral of Phocion is a 1648 landscape painting, also known as The Burial of Phocion, Landscape with the Funeral of Phocion and Landscape with the Body of Phocion Carried out of Athens, by the French artist Nicolas Poussin. Phocion was an Athenian statesman from the 4th century BC. Three versions of the painting are known. These are now housed in The Louvre, Paris; National Museum Cardiff and the collections of the Glass House in New Canaan, Connecticut, United States. In the same year Poussin painted a companion piece to The Funeral of Phocion, Landscape with the Ashes of Phocion.. 
Le Rêve Transformé. Author Name: Giorgio de Chirico. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Metaphysical_art. . Le Rêve Transformé (in English, The Transformed Dream) is a 1913 painting by the Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio De Chirico. This work contains the classic De Chirico's images of an empty urban scene at late evening with a ghostly train on the horizon. In this case in the foreground is an arrangement of bananas, pineapples and a Greek sculpture.. Le Rêve Transformé (in English, The Transformed Dream) is a 1913 painting by the Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio De Chirico. This work contains the classic De Chirico's images of an empty urban scene at late evening with a ghostly train on the horizon. In this case in the foreground is an arrangement of bananas, pineapples and a Greek sculpture.. 
House I. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . House I is a sculpture by Roy Lichtenstein.It is located at the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden.The house uses optical illusion to play with perspective. To appreciate the full effect, walk at a steady rate along the arc of the sidewalk that runs in front of and nearly perpendicular to the sculpture, with your head turned to one side, facing the sculpture. The house will appear to be spinning in space, like the "Wizard of Oz" house.It was constructed of painted aluminum, modeled in 1996 and constructed in 1999.. House I is a sculpture by Roy Lichtenstein. It is located at the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden. The house uses optical illusion to play with perspective. To appreciate the full effect, walk at a steady rate along the arc of the sidewalk that runs in front of and nearly perpendicular to the sculpture, with your head turned to one side, facing the sculpture. The house will appear to be spinning in space, like the "Wizard of Oz" house. It was constructed of painted aluminum, modeled in 1996 and constructed in 1999. Among his last works, it was a part of the House series. House II was shown at the Venice Biennale in 1997, and House III was shown at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.. 
Sigmund Freud. Author Name: Nemon, Oscar. . . The statue of Sigmund Freud is a seated bronze statue of the founder of psychoanalysis, Sigmund Freud, situated on a limestone plinth at the junction of Fitzjohn's Avenue and Belsize Lane in Hampstead, North London. Freud lived at nearby 20 Maresfield Gardens, for the last months of his life. His house is now the Freud Museum.It became a Grade II listed building in January 2016.. The statue of Sigmund Freud is a seated bronze statue of the founder of psychoanalysis, Sigmund Freud, situated on a limestone plinth at the junction of Fitzjohn's Avenue and Belsize Lane in Hampstead, North London. Freud lived at nearby 20 Maresfield Gardens, for the last months of his life. His house is now the Freud Museum. The sculptor Oscar Nemon was born and educated in Osijek before moving to work in Vienna in the 1920s. He had read Freud in his teens, initially approached Freud as a young sculptor and was rejected by him. After Nemon had gained his reputation in Brussels, he was approached by Freud's assistant Paul Federn in 1931 to sculpt Freud for his 75th birthday. Nemon finished busts of Freud in wood, bronze and plaster, and Freud chose to keep the wooden portrait for himself. The wooden bust is on display at the Freud Museum in Hampstead. Nemon visited Freud for a final time in London in 1938. His last sittings with Freud would create a "...harsher more abstracted portrait" which would become the head for the seated bronze in Hampstead. Freud wrote in his diary in July 1931 of Nemon's portrait that "The head, which the gaunt, goatee-bearded artist has fashioned from the dirt like the good Lord is very good and an astonishingly life-like impression of me." On seeing the head of Freud, his housekeeper Paula Fichtl said that Nemon had made Freud look "too angry", to which Freud responded that "...But I am angry. I am angry with humanity." The bronze, slightly larger than life size, was commissioned in the 1960s, with funds raised by a committee chaired by Donald Winnicott. The sculpture depicts Freud with his head turn to one side as if in thought, with his hands in his waistcoat pockets. Freud's daughter, Anna Freud, attended the unveiling of the statue in October 1970, accompanied by children from her Hampstead Clinic (now the Anna Freud Centre). The statue was originally located in "an alcove behind Swiss Cottage Library, where it was virtually hidden away from the public." The Freud Museum arranged for the statue to be moved to its present location in 1998. It became a Grade II listed building in January 2016.. 
River Legend. Author Name: Dimitri Hadzi. . . River Legend is an outdoor 1976 basalt sculpture by American artist Dimitri Hadzi, located outside of the Edith Green – Wendell Wyatt Federal Building in Portland, Oregon.. River Legend is an outdoor 1976 basalt sculpture by American artist Dimitri Hadzi, located outside of the Edith Green – Wendell Wyatt Federal Building in Portland, Oregon.. 
Self-portrait. Author Name: Thomas Eakins. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Self-portrait is an oil on canvas painting by Thomas Eakins, presented as a diploma piece upon his election as an Associate member of the National Academy of Design in 1902. Although Eakins included himself as an observer or participant in group portraits and genre scenes, this and a smaller unsigned and undated oil, thought to have been made at about the same time, are the only unadorned self-portraits he ever painted. Lloyd Goodrich wrote that it "is not only one of his finest head and bust likenesses, but a revealing human document; in the direct look of his remarkable eyes one can see strength, penetrating intelligence, and a touch of ironic humor.". Self-portrait is an oil on canvas painting by Thomas Eakins, presented as a diploma piece upon his election as an Associate member of the National Academy of Design in 1902. Although Eakins included himself as an observer or participant in group portraits and genre scenes, this and a smaller unsigned and undated oil, thought to have been made at about the same time, are the only unadorned self-portraits he ever painted. Lloyd Goodrich wrote that it "is not only one of his finest head and bust likenesses, but a revealing human document; in the direct look of his remarkable eyes one can see strength, penetrating intelligence, and a touch of ironic humor.". 
Marriage à-la-mode: 4. The Toilette. Author Name: William  Hogarth. . . The Toilette is the fourth canvas in the series of six satirical paintings known as Marriage à-la-mode painted by William Hogarth.The old Earl has died and the son is now the new Earl and his wife, the Countess. As was the very height of fashion at the time, the Countess is holding a "Toilette", or reception, in her bedroom.. The Toilette is the fourth canvas in the series of six satirical paintings known as Marriage à-la-mode painted by William Hogarth. The old Earl has died and the son is now the new Earl and his wife, the Countess. As was the very height of fashion at the time, the Countess is holding a "Toilette", or reception, in her bedroom.. 
La rencontre, ou "Bonjour Monsieur Courbet". Author Name: Gustave Courbet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Meeting or "Bonjour, Monsieur Courbet" (French: La rencontre, ou "Bonjour Monsieur Courbet") is an 1854 painting by Gustave Courbet.The painting is traditionally interpreted as Courbet greeted by his patron Alfred Bruyas, his servant Calas, and his dog while traveling to Montpellier. The composition is based on the Wandering Jew. The Meeting was exhibited in Paris at the 1855 Exhibition Universelle, where critics ridiculed it as "Bonjour, Monsieur Courbet". Bruyas did not exhibit The Meeting until he donated it to the Musée Fabre in Montpellier in 1868.. The Meeting or "Bonjour, Monsieur Courbet" (French: La rencontre, ou "Bonjour Monsieur Courbet") is an 1854 painting by Gustave Courbet. The painting is traditionally interpreted as Courbet greeted by his patron Alfred Bruyas, his servant Calas, and his dog while traveling to Montpellier. The composition is based on the Wandering Jew. The Meeting was exhibited in Paris at the 1855 Exhibition Universelle, where critics ridiculed it as "Bonjour, Monsieur Courbet". Bruyas did not exhibit The Meeting until he donated it to the Musée Fabre in Montpellier in 1868.. 
Barbadori Altarpiece. Author Name: Fra' Filippo Lippi, O.Carm.. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Barbadori Altarpiece is a painting by Filippo Lippi, dated to 1438 and housed in the Louvre Museum of Paris.. The Barbadori Altarpiece is a painting by Filippo Lippi, dated to 1438 and housed in the Louvre Museum of Paris.. 
The Madonna of the Carnation. Author Name: Leonardo da Vinci. . . The Madonna of the Carnation, a.k.a. Madonna with Vase or Madonna with Child, is a Renaissance oil painting by Leonardo da Vinci created around 1478-1480. It is permanently displayed at the Alte Pinakothek gallery in Munich, Germany.Originally this painting was thought to have been created by Andrea del Verrocchio but subsequent art historians agree that it is Leonardo's work.The Madonna and Child was a common motif in Christian art during the Middle Ages. This painting is the only work by Leonardo which is permanently on display in Germany.. The Madonna of the Carnation, a.k.a. Madonna with Vase or Madonna with Child, is a Renaissance oil painting by Leonardo da Vinci created around 1478-1480. It is permanently displayed at the Alte Pinakothek gallery in Munich, Germany. The central and centered motif is the young Virgin Mary seated with Baby Jesus on her lap. Depicted in precious clothes and jewellery, with her left hand Mary holds a carnation (interpreted as a healing symbol).[citation needed] The faces are put into light while all other objects are darker, e.g. the carnation is covered by a shadow. The child is looking up, the mother is looking down — there is no eye contact. The setting of the portrait is a room with two windows on each side of the figures. Originally this painting was thought to have been created by Andrea del Verrocchio but subsequent art historians agree that it is Leonardo's work. The Madonna and Child was a common motif in Christian art during the Middle Ages. This painting is the only work by Leonardo which is permanently on display in Germany.. 
Flatford Mill. Author Name: John Constable. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . Flatford Mill (Scene on a Navigable River) is an oil painting by English artist John Constable, painted in 1816. It is Constable's largest exhibition canvas to be painted mainly outdoors, the first of his large "six-foot" paintings, and the first in the Stour series which later included The Hay Wain. It is owned and exhibited at the Tate Britain gallery in London.. Flatford Mill (Scene on a Navigable River) is an oil painting by English artist John Constable, painted in 1816. It is Constable's largest exhibition canvas to be painted mainly outdoors, the first of his large "six-foot" paintings, and the first in the Stour series which later included The Hay Wain. It is owned and exhibited at the Tate Britain gallery in London.. 
The Beacon Light. Author Name: J. M. W. Turner. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . Beacon Light is a painting by J. M. W. Turner. It was given to the National Museum of Wales by the Davies sisters (Gwendoline and Margaret). For some time it was regarded as a fake, but is now accepted as authentic.. Beacon Light is a painting by J. M. W. Turner. It was given to the National Museum of Wales by the Davies sisters (Gwendoline and Margaret). For some time it was regarded as a fake, but is now accepted as authentic.. 
Walking on a Mountain Path in Spring. Author Name: Ma Yuan. . Author Movement: Southern Song Dynasty, Ma-Xia movement. . Walking on a Mountain Path in Spring (Chinese: 山徑春行) is a painting by Chinese artist Ma Yuan. It is painted on an album leaf, which also contains Emperor Ningzong's poem inscribed in the upper right corner.Mountain Path is done in Ma Yuan's "One-Corner Ma" style, where most of the painting's imagery is in one corner.. Walking on a Mountain Path in Spring (Chinese: 山徑春行) is a painting by Chinese artist Ma Yuan. It is painted on an album leaf, which also contains Emperor Ningzong's poem inscribed in the upper right corner. Mountain Path is done in Ma Yuan's "One-Corner Ma" style, where most of the painting's imagery is in one corner.. 
The Vision of the Youth Bartholomew. Author Name: Mikhail Vasilyevich Nesterov. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Russian_symbolism. . The Vision of the Youth Bartholomew (Russian: Видение отроку Варфоломею) is a painting by the Russian artist Mikhail Nesterov, the first and best known work in his series on Sergius of Radonezh, a medieval Russian saint. The painting illustrates an episode from "The Life of St. Sergius" by Epiphanius the Wise:The image of St. Sergius of Radonezh, near and dear to the artist since childhood, was embodiment of the moral ideal for Nesterov. Particularly important role Nesterov gave St. Sergius in rallying the Russian people.. The Vision of the Youth Bartholomew (Russian: Видение отроку Варфоломею) is a painting by the Russian artist Mikhail Nesterov, the first and best known work in his series on Sergius of Radonezh, a medieval Russian saint. The painting illustrates an episode from "The Life of St. Sergius" by Epiphanius the Wise: The image of St. Sergius of Radonezh, near and dear to the artist since childhood, was embodiment of the moral ideal for Nesterov. Particularly important role Nesterov gave St. Sergius in rallying the Russian people. Sketches of landscapes the artist wrote in 1899 in the vicinity of the Trinity Sergius Lavra, settling in the village Komyakovo near Abramtsevo. Abramtzevo became one of the favorite places of Mikhail Nesterov. There he finished top (landscape) part and went to Ufa. The artist hurried, because he was preparing for the XVIII Peredvizhniki exhibition and despite having the flu, continued to work actively. One day he felt dizzy, he stumbled (he stood on a small stool), fell and injured the canvas. It was impossible to continue the work, he needed a new canvas, which finally was brought. The painting, which caused the most contradictory opinions, became a sensation XVIII Peredvizhniki exhibition and was bought by Pavel Tretyakov for his gallery. Until the end of his days, the artist was convinced that "The Vision of the Youth Bartholomew" remained the best of his work. In old age, the artist used to say:. 
Alexander Hamilton. Author Name: Giuseppe Ceracchi. . . Alexander Hamilton is a marble bust portrait of Alexander Hamilton, done in the style of a Roman Senator, by the Italian sculptor Giuseppe Ceracchi. Ceracchi also created many replicas, in both marble and plaster. The bust was later used as a model for sculptures and paintings.. Alexander Hamilton is a marble bust portrait of Alexander Hamilton, done in the style of a Roman Senator, by the Italian sculptor Giuseppe Ceracchi. Ceracchi also created many replicas, in both marble and plaster. The bust was later used as a model for sculptures and paintings.. 
Totem. Author Name: Paluzzi, Rinaldo. . . Totem, is a public artwork by American-Spanish artist Rinaldo Paluzzi, located on the grounds of White River State Park, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. The sculpture is made of stainless steel and is a triangular shaped vertical "tube" with triangular and trapezoidal cut-outs in the steel. The piece sits centered atop a concrete circle, 40 feet in diameter, with a sundial face. The piece was constructed in 1982 and dedicated November 9, 1982. It is copyrighted 1983.. Totem, is a public artwork by American-Spanish artist Rinaldo Paluzzi, located on the grounds of White River State Park, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. The sculpture is made of stainless steel and is a triangular shaped vertical "tube" with triangular and trapezoidal cut-outs in the steel. The piece sits centered atop a concrete circle, 40 feet in diameter, with a sundial face. The piece was constructed in 1982 and dedicated November 9, 1982. It is copyrighted 1983.. 
Portrait of Sir Richard Southwell. Author Name: Hans Holbein the Younger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Northern_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Sir Richard Southwell is a painting by the German Renaissance master Hans Holbein the Younger, executed around 1536-1537. It is housed in the Uffizi, Florence.The painting was required by Grand Duke Cosimo II de' Medici in 1620 to Thomas Howard, Duke of Arundel, to fill a gap in the family collections. It arrived in Florence in April 1621, when Cosimo had already died. It belongs to Holbein's mature career, and a preparatory drawing of the painting (with the inscription "Southwell Knight") exists in the Royal Collections of the Windsor Castle. The Louvre houses a copy brought to Paris during the Napoleonic invasions of Europe.. The Portrait of Sir Richard Southwell is a painting by the German Renaissance master Hans Holbein the Younger, executed around 1536-1537. It is housed in the Uffizi, Florence. The painting was required by Grand Duke Cosimo II de' Medici in 1620 to Thomas Howard, Duke of Arundel, to fill a gap in the family collections. It arrived in Florence in April 1621, when Cosimo had already died. It belongs to Holbein's mature career, and a preparatory drawing of the painting (with the inscription "Southwell Knight") exists in the Royal Collections of the Windsor Castle. The Louvre houses a copy brought to Paris during the Napoleonic invasions of Europe.. 
A Storm in the Rocky Mountains, Mt. Rosalie. Author Name: Albert Bierstadt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Hudson_River_School. . A Storm in the Rocky Mountains, Mt. Rosalie is an 1866 landscape oil painting by German-American painter Albert Bierstadt that was inspired by sketches created on an 1863 expedition.Bierstadt traveled to the Colorado Rocky Mountains where he was taken up to the Chicago Lakes beneath Mount Evans. The painting is named after Bierstadt's mistress and, at the time, his friend's wife, Rosalie Osborne Ludlow. The painting, measuring at 210.8 × 361.3 cm (83.0 × 142.2 in), is exhibited at the Brooklyn Museum, who acquired it in 1976.. A Storm in the Rocky Mountains, Mt. Rosalie is an 1866 landscape oil painting by German-American painter Albert Bierstadt that was inspired by sketches created on an 1863 expedition. Bierstadt traveled to the Colorado Rocky Mountains where he was taken up to the Chicago Lakes beneath Mount Evans. The painting is named after Bierstadt's mistress and, at the time, his friend's wife, Rosalie Osborne Ludlow. The painting, measuring at 210.8 × 361.3 cm (83.0 × 142.2 in), is exhibited at the Brooklyn Museum, who acquired it in 1976.. 
Portrait of Cornelis Guldewagen. Author Name: Frans Hals. . . Cornelis Guldewagen (1599 – 1663), was a Haarlem mayor, known best today for his portrait by Frans Hals.. Cornelis Guldewagen (1599 – 1663), was a Haarlem mayor, known best today for his portrait by Frans Hals.. 
Michael Jackson HIStory Statue. Author Name: Walczak, Diana. . . The Michael Jackson HIStory statue is a sculpture of Michael Jackson created in 1994 by Diana Walczak that became the basis for the cover image of Jackson's album HIStory: Past, Present and Future, Book I as well as the basis for large temporary statues to market the album and the 1995 HIStory World Tour. Michael's vision was to appear as a giant statue on the album cover. Diana sculpted the original statue with a monumental look. The sculpture was then digitized, lit, and rendered by her computer animation and visual effects company, Kleiser-Walczak Construction Co., into the HIStory album cover.. The Michael Jackson HIStory statue is a sculpture of Michael Jackson created in 1994 by Diana Walczak that became the basis for the cover image of Jackson's album HIStory: Past, Present and Future, Book I as well as the basis for large temporary statues to market the album and the 1995 HIStory World Tour. Michael's vision was to appear as a giant statue on the album cover. Diana sculpted the original statue with a monumental look. The sculpture was then digitized, lit, and rendered by her computer animation and visual effects company, Kleiser-Walczak Construction Co., into the HIStory album cover. To promote the HIStory tour, 30 feet (9.1 m) tall versions of the statue were built. One built out of plaster and wood was placed atop the Los Angeles Tower Records shop. For the European promotion, ten replicas were built across three months by a team of 30 people out of steel and fiberglass, weighing an estimated 20,000 pounds (9,100 kg). Among its locations, one was towed down London's River Thames, another was lowered by cranes in front of Alexanderplatz in Berlin, others were at landmarks such as the Champs-Élysées in Paris and the Gallerie di Piazza Scala in Milan, and the one at tour starter Prague was erected using the pedestal of the destroyed Stalin Monument. During the tour's 1996 stop at the Netherlands, Jackson donated the Dutch statue to the Ronald McDonald House Charity that was under construction in Eindhoven. Said statue was then part of a beneficent auction, being purchased by the owner of McDonald's Best, Peter Van Gelder. It stands on the McDonald's Best parking lot to date, becoming a gathering point to Jackson fans following his death in 2009.. 
The Black Brunswicker. Author Name: Sir John Everett Millais, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pre-Raphaelite_Brotherhood. . The Black Brunswicker (1860) is a painting by John Everett Millais. It was inspired in part by the exploits of the Black Brunswickers, a German volunteer corps of the Napoleonic Wars, during the Waterloo campaign and in part by the contrasts of black broadcloth and pearl-white satin in a moment of tender conflict. The painting was originally exhibited with the plural title The Black Brunswickers, but is most commonly known by the singular form of the title.. The Black Brunswicker (1860) is a painting by John Everett Millais. It was inspired in part by the exploits of the Black Brunswickers, a German volunteer corps of the Napoleonic Wars, during the Waterloo campaign and in part by the contrasts of black broadcloth and pearl-white satin in a moment of tender conflict. The painting was originally exhibited with the plural title The Black Brunswickers, but is most commonly known by the singular form of the title.. 
Puberty. Author Name: Edvard Munch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Expressionism. . Puberty (Norwegian: Pubertet) is a painting created by Edvard Munch. Munch is an artist native to Norway and is widely known for his role in expressionistic art. Puberty has also been done as a lithograph and an etching by Munch.. Puberty (Norwegian: Pubertet) is a painting created by Edvard Munch. Munch is an artist native to Norway and is widely known for his role in expressionistic art. Puberty has also been done as a lithograph and an etching by Munch.. 
Madonna and Child with Saints Luke and Catherine of Alexandria. Author Name: Titian. . . The Madonna and Child with Saints Luke and Catherine of Alexandria, also known simply as Holy Conversation, is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Titian. It is one of his several versions of the canonical image of the Madonna and Child.Executed in oil on canvas, it was painted around 1560, at the height of Titian's career. In 2011, the painting achieved the highest auction price ever for one of Titian's works, at $16.9 million. The painting was sold by Gerlinda Kisters, who had inherited it from her husband, Heinz Kisters, who died in 1977.. The Madonna and Child with Saints Luke and Catherine of Alexandria, also known simply as Holy Conversation, is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Titian. It is one of his several versions of the canonical image of the Madonna and Child. Executed in oil on canvas, it was painted around 1560, at the height of Titian's career. In 2011, the painting achieved the highest auction price ever for one of Titian's works, at $16.9 million. The painting was sold by Gerlinda Kisters, who had inherited it from her husband, Heinz Kisters, who died in 1977.. 
Santa Cristina al Tiverone Altarpiece. Author Name: Lorenzo Lotto. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Santa Cristina al Tiverone Altarpiece is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Lorenzo Lotto, executed around 1504-1506. It is still housed in its original location, the parish church of Santa Cristina in Quinto di Treviso, a frazione of Treviso, northern Italy.Measuring 90x179 cm (lunette) and 177x162 cm (central panel), it is signed "Laurentius / Lotus / P.[inxit]" at the base of the throne. It was perhaps commissioned around 1505 by bishop Bernardo de' Rossi, in whose court Lotto worked at the time. It was released on 14 May 1507, just before the artists' move to Recanati.. Santa Cristina al Tiverone Altarpiece is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Lorenzo Lotto, executed around 1504-1506. It is still housed in its original location, the parish church of Santa Cristina in Quinto di Treviso, a frazione of Treviso, northern Italy. Measuring 90x179 cm (lunette) and 177x162 cm (central panel), it is signed "Laurentius / Lotus / P.[inxit]" at the base of the throne. It was perhaps commissioned around 1505 by bishop Bernardo de' Rossi, in whose court Lotto worked at the time. It was released on 14 May 1507, just before the artists' move to Recanati.. 
Miró's Chicago. Author Name: Joan Miró. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . Miró's Chicago (originally called The Sun, the Moon and One Star) is a sculpture by Joan Miró. It is 39 feet (12 m) tall, and is made of steel, wire mesh, concrete, bronze, and ceramic tile.. Miró's Chicago (originally called The Sun, the Moon and One Star) is a sculpture by Joan Miró. It is 39 feet (12 m) tall, and is made of steel, wire mesh, concrete, bronze, and ceramic tile.. 
Saint Jerome in His Study. Author Name: Albrecht Dürer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Saint Jerome in His Study (German: Der heilige Hieronymus im Gehäus) is an engraving of 1514 by the German artist Albrecht Dürer. Saint Jerome is shown sitting behind his desk, engrossed in work. The table, on the corner of which is a cross, is typical of the Renaissance. An imaginary line from Jerome's head passing through the cross would arrive at the skull on the window ledge, as if contrasting death and the Resurrection. The lion in the foreground is part of the traditional iconography of St. Jerome, and near it is a sleeping dog, an animal found frequently in Dürer's works, symbolizing loyalty. Both creatures are part of Jerome's story in the Golden Legend (c. 1260), which contained fanciful hagiographies of saints.. Saint Jerome in His Study (German: Der heilige Hieronymus im Gehäus) is an engraving of 1514 by the German artist Albrecht Dürer. Saint Jerome is shown sitting behind his desk, engrossed in work. The table, on the corner of which is a cross, is typical of the Renaissance. An imaginary line from Jerome's head passing through the cross would arrive at the skull on the window ledge, as if contrasting death and the Resurrection. The lion in the foreground is part of the traditional iconography of St. Jerome, and near it is a sleeping dog, an animal found frequently in Dürer's works, symbolizing loyalty. Both creatures are part of Jerome's story in the Golden Legend (c. 1260), which contained fanciful hagiographies of saints. St. Jerome in His Study is often considered as part of a group of three Dürer engravings, the other two being the well-known Melencolia I (1514) and Knight, Death and the Devil (1513). Together they have been viewed as representing the three spheres of activity recognized in medieval times: Knight, Death, and the Devil belongs to the moral sphere and the "active life"; Melencolia I represents the intellectual; and St. Jerome the theological and contemplative life. The composition is intimate, but the viewer has difficulty locating himself in relation to the picture's space. Thomas Puttfarken suggests that while the scene is very close to the observer, Dürer did not intend the viewer to feel present: "the intimacy is not ours, but the saint's as he is engrossed in study and meditation" (94). Art historian Erwin Panofsky comments on the perspective:. 
Play sculpture. Author Name: John Bridgeman. . . The sculptor John Bridgeman was commissioned in the early 1960s by playground designer Mary Frances Mitchell, to create an abstract sculpture in concrete, for a Birmingham City Council playground, on Curtis Gardens, on a housing estate on Fox Hollies Road in the Acocks Green district of Birmingham, England. It has been described as "fish like".It is the only one of a series of playground sculptures by Bridgeman, who was head of sculpture at Birmingham College of Arts and Crafts until 1981, to survive. It was originally painted in a metallic sheen, but this is now mostly worn off.. The sculptor John Bridgeman was commissioned in the early 1960s by playground designer Mary Frances Mitchell, to create an abstract sculpture in concrete, for a Birmingham City Council playground, on Curtis Gardens, on a housing estate on Fox Hollies Road in the Acocks Green district of Birmingham, England. It has been described as "fish like". It is the only one of a series of playground sculptures by Bridgeman, who was head of sculpture at Birmingham College of Arts and Crafts until 1981, to survive. It was originally painted in a metallic sheen, but this is now mostly worn off. In February 2015, the untitled piece was grade II listed by the Department for Culture, Media and Sport, on the advice of Historic England, giving it legal protection from removal or alteration.. 
The Death of the Earl of Chatham. Author Name: John Singleton Copley. . . The Death of the Earl of Chatham is the title of a 1781 oil-on-canvas painting by Boston-born American artist John Singleton Copley. It depicts the collapse of William Pitt, 1st Earl of Chatham on 7 April 1778, during a debate in the House of Lords on the American War of Independence. Chatham is surrounded by peers of the realm, and the painting contains fifty-five portraits.. The Death of the Earl of Chatham is the title of a 1781 oil-on-canvas painting by Boston-born American artist John Singleton Copley. It depicts the collapse of William Pitt, 1st Earl of Chatham on 7 April 1778, during a debate in the House of Lords on the American War of Independence. Chatham is surrounded by peers of the realm, and the painting contains fifty-five portraits.. 
The Trinity and Mystic Pietà. Author Name: Hans Baldung. . . The Trinity and Mystic Pietà is an oil on oak painting undertaken in 1512 by the German artist Hans Baldung.. The Trinity and Mystic Pietà is an oil on oak painting undertaken in 1512 by the German artist Hans Baldung.. 
The Triumph of Death. Author Name: Pieter Bruegel the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_and_Flemish_Renaissance_painting. . The Triumph of Death is an oil panel painting by Pieter Bruegel the Elder painted c. 1562. It has been in the Museo del Prado in Madrid since 1827.. The Triumph of Death is an oil panel painting by Pieter Bruegel the Elder painted c. 1562. It has been in the Museo del Prado in Madrid since 1827.. 
Before the Race. Author Name: Edgar Degas. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Impressionist painter, Edgar Degas, began painting scenes with horses in the 1860s, including Before the Race (1882–84).. Impressionist painter, Edgar Degas, began painting scenes with horses in the 1860s, including Before the Race (1882–84).. 
Dog Bowl. Author Name: William Wegman. . . Dog Bowl is an outdoor 2002 sculpture by dog photographer William Wegman, located in the North Park Blocks in Portland, Oregon, United States.. Dog Bowl is an outdoor 2002 sculpture by dog photographer William Wegman, located in the North Park Blocks in Portland, Oregon, United States.. 
The Kongouro from New Holland. Author Name: George Stubbs. . . The Kongouro from New Holland is an oil painting by George Stubbs. Depicting a kangaroo, it is the first depiction of an Australian animal in Western Art, along with a painting of a dingo—Portrait of a Large Dog—also by George Stubbs. It is part of the collection of the National Maritime Museum in Greenwich, London. The work was commissioned by Joseph Banks and based on the inflated skin of an animal he had collected from the east coast of Australia in 1770 during Lieutenant James Cook's first voyage of discovery. It depicts the animal sitting on a rock and looking over its shoulder with a backdrop of trees and mountains. The two were the only two paintings that Stubbs did not draw from a live subject.. The Kongouro from New Holland is an oil painting by George Stubbs. Depicting a kangaroo, it is the first depiction of an Australian animal in Western Art, along with a painting of a dingo—Portrait of a Large Dog—also by George Stubbs. It is part of the collection of the National Maritime Museum in Greenwich, London. The work was commissioned by Joseph Banks and based on the inflated skin of an animal he had collected from the east coast of Australia in 1770 during Lieutenant James Cook's first voyage of discovery. It depicts the animal sitting on a rock and looking over its shoulder with a backdrop of trees and mountains. The two were the only two paintings that Stubbs did not draw from a live subject. It was first exhibited by the Society of Artists in London in 1773 together with his painting of the dingo, Portrait of a Large Dog. Subsequent exhibitions were held at the Walker Art Gallery in Liverpool in 1951 and the Whitechapel Art Gallery in 1957. The painting has also been on view in recent years at Palham House during public openings. In 2012, The Kongouro from New Holland and Portrait of a Large Dog were purchased together at auction for 9.3 million Australian dollars by an undisclosed buyer. An application to take them to Australia was refused by the Department of Culture on the grounds of their national importance. Sir David Attenborough, who had led a campaign to keep both portraits in Britain, remarked that it was "exciting news that these two pictures, so important in the history of zoological discovery, are to remain where they were commissioned and painted". The National Gallery of Australia had expressed a strong desire to purchase the portraits. In November 2013 it was announced that a £1.5million donation from the Eyal Ofer Family Foundation will enable the National Maritime Museum in Greenwich, London to acquire the two paintings.. 
The Jewish Bride. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Jewish Bride (Dutch: Het Joodse bruidje) is a painting by Rembrandt, painted around 1667.The painting gained its current name in the early 19th century, when an Amsterdam art collector identified the subject as that of a Jewish father bestowing a necklace upon his daughter on her wedding day. This interpretation is no longer accepted, and the identity of the couple is uncertain. The ambiguity is heightened by the lack of anecdotal context, leaving only the central universal theme, that of a couple joined in love. Speculative suggestions as to the couple's identity have ranged from Rembrandt's son Titus and his bride, or Amsterdam poet Miguel de Barrios and his wife. Also considered are several couples from the Old Testament, including Abraham and Sarah, or Boaz and Ruth. The likeliest . The Jewish Bride (Dutch: Het Joodse bruidje) is a painting by Rembrandt, painted around 1667. The painting gained its current name in the early 19th century, when an Amsterdam art collector identified the subject as that of a Jewish father bestowing a necklace upon his daughter on her wedding day. This interpretation is no longer accepted, and the identity of the couple is uncertain. The ambiguity is heightened by the lack of anecdotal context, leaving only the central universal theme, that of a couple joined in love. Speculative suggestions as to the couple's identity have ranged from Rembrandt's son Titus and his bride, or Amsterdam poet Miguel de Barrios and his wife. Also considered are several couples from the Old Testament, including Abraham and Sarah, or Boaz and Ruth. The likeliest identification, however, is that of Isaac and Rebekah, as described in Genesis 26:8, and is supported by a drawing by the artist of the same theme. While technical evidence suggests that Rembrandt initially envisioned a larger and more elaborate composition, the placement of his signature at lower left indicates that its current dimensions are not significantly different from those at the time of its completion. According to Rembrandt biographer Christopher White, the completed composition is "one of the greatest expressions of the tender fusion of spiritual and physical love in the history of painting." The painting is in the permanent collection of the Rijksmuseum Amsterdam.. 
Beauty Revealed. Author Name: Goodridge, Sarah. . . Beauty Revealed is an 1828 self-portrait by Sarah Goodridge, painted in miniature with watercolors on a piece of ivory. Depicting the artist's bared breasts surrounded by pale cloth, the 6.7-by-8-centimetre (2.6 by 3.1 in) painting – originally on a paper backing – is set in a modern case. Goodridge, aged forty when she completed the miniature, depicts breasts which appear imbued with a "balance, paleness, and buoyancy" by the harmony of light, color, and balance. The surrounding cloth draws the viewer to focus on them, leading to the body being "erased".. Beauty Revealed is an 1828 self-portrait by Sarah Goodridge, painted in miniature with watercolors on a piece of ivory. Depicting the artist's bared breasts surrounded by pale cloth, the 6.7-by-8-centimetre (2.6 by 3.1 in) painting – originally on a paper backing – is set in a modern case. Goodridge, aged forty when she completed the miniature, depicts breasts which appear imbued with a "balance, paleness, and buoyancy" by the harmony of light, color, and balance. The surrounding cloth draws the viewer to focus on them, leading to the body being "erased". Goodridge gifted the portrait to statesman Daniel Webster, who was a frequent subject and possibly a lover, following the death of his wife; she may have intended to provoke him into marrying her. Although Webster married someone else, his family held onto the portrait until the 1980s, when it was auctioned at Christie's and acquired by Gloria and Richard Manney in 1981. The couple gifted/sold their collection of miniatures, including Beauty Revealed, to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 2006.. 
Windfall. Author Name: Murray, Robert. . . Windfall is a public art work by Canadian artist Robert Murray located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture is an abstract form made of aluminum panels set at angles; it is painted bright red and installed on the lawn.. Windfall is a public art work by Canadian artist Robert Murray located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture is an abstract form made of aluminum panels set at angles; it is painted bright red and installed on the lawn.. 
James Scott Memorial Fountain. Author Name: Cass Gilbert. . . The James Scott Memorial Fountain is a monument located in Belle Isle Park, in Detroit, Michigan. Designed by architect Cass Gilbert and sculptor Herbert Adams, the fountain was completed in 1925 at a cost of $500,000. The lower bowl has a diameter of 510 ft (160 m) and the central spray reaches 125 ft (38 m). The fountain honors the controversial James Scott, who left $200,000 to the City of Detroit for a fountain in tribute to himself.. The James Scott Memorial Fountain is a monument located in Belle Isle Park, in Detroit, Michigan. Designed by architect Cass Gilbert and sculptor Herbert Adams, the fountain was completed in 1925 at a cost of $500,000. The lower bowl has a diameter of 510 ft (160 m) and the central spray reaches 125 ft (38 m). The fountain honors the controversial James Scott, who left $200,000 to the City of Detroit for a fountain in tribute to himself.. 
Holy Kinship. Author Name: Geertgen tot Sint Jans. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . Holy Kinship was a popular theme in religious art throughout Germany and the Low Countries, especially during the late 15th and early 16th centuries. The Holy Kin were the extended family of Jesus descended from his maternal grandmother St. Anne. According to this tradition, St. Anne, the mother of the Virgin Mary, was grandmother not just to Jesus but also to five of the twelve apostles: John the Evangelist, James the Greater, James the Less, Simon and Jude. These apostles, together with John the Baptist, were all cousins of Jesus. The genealogy holds that Anne’s sister, Hismeria (or Esmeria), was the mother of John the Baptist’s mother Elizabeth and of a second child, Eliud, who was in turn the grandfather of St. Servatius.. Holy Kinship was a popular theme in religious art throughout Germany and the Low Countries, especially during the late 15th and early 16th centuries. The Holy Kin were the extended family of Jesus descended from his maternal grandmother St. Anne. According to this tradition, St. Anne, the mother of the Virgin Mary, was grandmother not just to Jesus but also to five of the twelve apostles: John the Evangelist, James the Greater, James the Less, Simon and Jude. These apostles, together with John the Baptist, were all cousins of Jesus. The genealogy holds that Anne’s sister, Hismeria (or Esmeria), was the mother of John the Baptist’s mother Elizabeth and of a second child, Eliud, who was in turn the grandfather of St. Servatius. The basis for this family tree rests upon the trinubium, the tradition that Anne had married three times. The exact lineage, as laid out in Jacobus de Voragine’s Golden Legend (Latin: Legenda Aurea), runs thus: The first theologian to set forth the concept of the trinubium was Haymo of Halberstadt in his Historiae sacrae epitome, in which he outlined the family tree described above.. 
St. Peter's Baldachin. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . St. Peter's Baldachin (Italian: Baldacchino di San Pietro) is a large Baroque sculpted bronze canopy, technically called a ciborium or baldachin, over the high altar of St. Peter's Basilica in the Vatican City, the papal enclave surrounded by Rome, Italy. The baldachin is at the centre of the crossing and directly under the dome of the basilica. Designed by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini, it was intended to mark, in a monumental way, the place of Saint Peter's tomb underneath. Under its canopy is the high altar of the basilica. Commissioned by Pope Urban VIII, the work began in 1623 and ended in 1634. The baldachin acts as a visual focus within the basilica; it itself is a very large structure and forms a visual mediation between the enormous scale of the building and the human sc. St. Peter's Baldachin (Italian: Baldacchino di San Pietro) is a large Baroque sculpted bronze canopy, technically called a ciborium or baldachin, over the high altar of St. Peter's Basilica in the Vatican City, the papal enclave surrounded by Rome, Italy. The baldachin is at the centre of the crossing and directly under the dome of the basilica. Designed by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini, it was intended to mark, in a monumental way, the place of Saint Peter's tomb underneath. Under its canopy is the high altar of the basilica. Commissioned by Pope Urban VIII, the work began in 1623 and ended in 1634. The baldachin acts as a visual focus within the basilica; it itself is a very large structure and forms a visual mediation between the enormous scale of the building and the human scale of the people officiating at the religious ceremonies at the papal altar beneath its canopy.. 
The Seven Mustangs. Author Name: Alexander Phimister Proctor. . . The Seven Mustangs, sometimes abridged as Mustangs, is a bronze sculpture by Alexander Phimister Proctor, located on the University of Texas at Austin campus in Austin, Texas, in the United States. The sculpture was commissioned in 1937, modeled from 1939 to 1941, cast in 1947, and dedicated on May 31, 1948.. The Seven Mustangs, sometimes abridged as Mustangs, is a bronze sculpture by Alexander Phimister Proctor, located on the University of Texas at Austin campus in Austin, Texas, in the United States. The sculpture was commissioned in 1937, modeled from 1939 to 1941, cast in 1947, and dedicated on May 31, 1948.. 
Mojo. Author Name: Christian Moeller. . . Mojo is a public artwork, by Christian Moeller.It is located at the Centre Street Lofts, 285 West 6th Street, at the corner of West 7th and Centre Streets, Los Angeles, California.. Mojo is a public artwork, by Christian Moeller. It is located at the Centre Street Lofts, 285 West 6th Street, at the corner of West 7th and Centre Streets, Los Angeles, California.. 
Monument to the Bandeiras. Author Name: Victor Brecheret. . . Monument to the Bandeiras (O Monumento às Bandeiras) is a large-scale sculpture by the Italian-Brazilian sculptor Victor Brecheret (1894-1955) at the entrance of Ibirapuera Park in São Paulo, Brazil. It was commissioned by the government of São Paulo in 1921 and completed in 1954. The monument, given its size and location, has now become an integral part of the landscape of São Paulo.. Monument to the Bandeiras (O Monumento às Bandeiras) is a large-scale sculpture by the Italian-Brazilian sculptor Victor Brecheret (1894-1955) at the entrance of Ibirapuera Park in São Paulo, Brazil. It was commissioned by the government of São Paulo in 1921 and completed in 1954. The monument, given its size and location, has now become an integral part of the landscape of São Paulo. The monument was erected in the south central area of the city in Armando Salles de Oliveira Square (Armando Salles de Oliveira Square), opposite the Palácio 9 de Julho, headquarters of the Legislative Assembly of the State of São Paulo.. 
Cubi XI. Author Name: David Smith. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . Cubi XI is an abstract sculpture by  David Smith. It is a part of the Cubi series of sculptures.Constructed in 1963, it was installed on April 21, 1964 at 1875 Connecticut Avenue, N.W. near Sheridan Circle.It is in the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden.. Cubi XI is an abstract sculpture by David Smith. It is a part of the Cubi series of sculptures. Constructed in 1963, it was installed on April 21, 1964 at 1875 Connecticut Avenue, N.W. near Sheridan Circle. It is in the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden.. 
The Bride of the Wind. Author Name: Oskar Kokoschka. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Expressionism. . The Bride of the Wind (Die Windsbraut) (or The Tempest) is a 1913-1914 oil on canvas painting by Oskar Kokoschka. It is housed in the Kunstmuseum Basel. Kokoschka's best known work, it is an allegorical picture featuring a self-portrait by the artist, lying alongside his lover Alma Mahler.When Kokoschka painted the picture, poet Georg Trakl visited him almost daily and extolled the painting in his poem Die Nacht (The Night).. The Bride of the Wind (Die Windsbraut) (or The Tempest) is a 1913-1914 oil on canvas painting by Oskar Kokoschka. It is housed in the Kunstmuseum Basel. Kokoschka's best known work, it is an allegorical picture featuring a self-portrait by the artist, lying alongside his lover Alma Mahler. Kokoschka met Mahler, then recently widowed from Gustav Mahler, in 1912. A passionate romance ensued, with the artist producing numerous drawings and paintings of Mahler. The painting depicts Mahler in a peaceful sleep beside Kokoschka, who is awake and stares into space. The couple's break-up in 1914 had a profound effect on Kokoschka, whose expressive brushwork grew more turbulent. When Kokoschka painted the picture, poet Georg Trakl visited him almost daily and extolled the painting in his poem Die Nacht (The Night).. 
Harmony in Blue and Gold: The Peacock Room. Author Name: James Abbott McNeill Whistler. . Author Movement: Founder of Tonalism. . Harmony in Blue and Gold: The Peacock Room (better known as The Peacock Room) is James McNeill Whistler's masterpiece of interior decorative mural art. He painted the panelled room in a rich and unified palette of brilliant blue-greens with over-glazing and metallic gold leaf. Painted between 1876–77, it now is considered one of the greatest surviving aesthetic interiors, and best examples of the Anglo-Japanese style.. Harmony in Blue and Gold: The Peacock Room (better known as The Peacock Room) is James McNeill Whistler's masterpiece of interior decorative mural art. He painted the panelled room in a rich and unified palette of brilliant blue-greens with over-glazing and metallic gold leaf. Painted between 1876–77, it now is considered one of the greatest surviving aesthetic interiors, and best examples of the Anglo-Japanese style.. 
Portrait of a Young Woman. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Portrait of a Young Woman (also known as La fornarina) is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance master Raphael, made between 1518 and 1520. It is in the Galleria Nazionale d'Arte Antica in Palazzo Barberini, Rome.It is probable that the picture was in the painter's studio at his death in 1520, and that it was modified and then sold by his assistant Giulio Romano. In the 16th century the picture was in the house of the Countess of Santafiora, a Roman noblewoman, and subsequently became property of the Duke Boncompagni and then of the Galleria Nazionale which still possesses it.. The Portrait of a Young Woman (also known as La fornarina) is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance master Raphael, made between 1518 and 1520. It is in the Galleria Nazionale d'Arte Antica in Palazzo Barberini, Rome. It is probable that the picture was in the painter's studio at his death in 1520, and that it was modified and then sold by his assistant Giulio Romano. In the 16th century the picture was in the house of the Countess of Santafiora, a Roman noblewoman, and subsequently became property of the Duke Boncompagni and then of the Galleria Nazionale which still possesses it. The woman is traditionally identified with the fornarina (baker) Margherita Luti, Raphael's Roman lover, though this has been questioned. The woman is pictured with an oriental style hat and bare breasts. She is making the gesture to cover her left breast, or to turn it with her hand, and is illuminated by a strong light coming from outside. Her left arm has a narrow band carrying the signature of the artist, . It has been suggested that the right hand on the left breast reveals a cancerous breast tumour disguised in a classic pose of love. Another speculation is that she is touching her left breast to remind herself which side she last fed her child on, the child being Raphael's, the high renaissance painter. X-Ray analyses have shown that in the background was originally a Leonardesque-style landscape in place of the myrtle bush, which was sacred to Venus, goddess of love and passion.. 
Adoration of the Magi. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . The Adoration of the Magi is an oil painting on wood panel by Netherlandish artist Hieronymus Bosch, executed around 1475. It is housed in the Metropolitan Museum, New York, USA.. The Adoration of the Magi is an oil painting on wood panel by Netherlandish artist Hieronymus Bosch, executed around 1475. It is housed in the Metropolitan Museum, New York, USA.. 
The Entombment of Christ. Author Name: Titian. . . The Entombment of Christ is a c. 1520 painting by Titian, now in the Musée du Louvre.. The Entombment of Christ is a c. 1520 painting by Titian, now in the Musée du Louvre.. 
The Judgement of Paris. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Judgement of Paris refers to any of the several paintings of the Judgement of Paris produced by Peter Paul Rubens, though he did not match the 22 depictions of the subject attributed to Lucas Cranach the Elder. The large versions of 1636 and 1638 are among the best known. These both show Rubens' version of idealised feminine beauty, with the goddesses Venus, Minerva and Juno on one side and Paris accompanied by Mercury on the other (the 1636 version has a putto at the far left and Alecto above the goddesses, whilst the 1638 version adds a putto between Minerva and Venus).. The Judgement of Paris refers to any of the several paintings of the Judgement of Paris produced by Peter Paul Rubens, though he did not match the 22 depictions of the subject attributed to Lucas Cranach the Elder. The large versions of 1636 and 1638 are among the best known. These both show Rubens' version of idealised feminine beauty, with the goddesses Venus, Minerva and Juno on one side and Paris accompanied by Mercury on the other (the 1636 version has a putto at the far left and Alecto above the goddesses, whilst the 1638 version adds a putto between Minerva and Venus).. 
Tarquin and Lucretia. Author Name: Titian. . . Tarquin and Lucretia is an oil painting attributed to Titian, dated to around 1571. It was probably a commission for Philip II of Spain, remaining in his successors' collection until 1813, when it seems to have been taken to France by Joseph Bonaparte after he gave up the Spanish throne - after several private owners, it is now held at the Fitzwilliam Museum in Cambridge.. Tarquin and Lucretia is an oil painting attributed to Titian, dated to around 1571. It was probably a commission for Philip II of Spain, remaining in his successors' collection until 1813, when it seems to have been taken to France by Joseph Bonaparte after he gave up the Spanish throne - after several private owners, it is now held at the Fitzwilliam Museum in Cambridge.. 
Self portrait. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Self portrait is an 1889 oil on canvas painting by the post-impressionist artist Vincent van Gogh. The picture, which may have been Van Gogh's last self-portrait, was painted in September that year, shortly before he left Saint-Rémy-de-Provence in southern France.. Self portrait is an 1889 oil on canvas painting by the post-impressionist artist Vincent van Gogh. The picture, which may have been Van Gogh's last self-portrait, was painted in September that year, shortly before he left Saint-Rémy-de-Provence in southern France.. 
Woman Sewing. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Peasant Character Studies is a series of works that Vincent van Gogh made between 1881 and 1885.Van Gogh had a particular attachment and sympathy for the working class fueled in several ways. He was particularly fond of the peasant genre work of Jean-François Millet and others. He found the subjects noble and important in the development of modern art. Van Gogh had seen the changing landscape in the Netherlands as industrialization encroached on once pastoral settings and the livelihoods of the working poor with little opportunity to change vocation.. Peasant Character Studies is a series of works that Vincent van Gogh made between 1881 and 1885. Van Gogh had a particular attachment and sympathy for the working class fueled in several ways. He was particularly fond of the peasant genre work of Jean-François Millet and others. He found the subjects noble and important in the development of modern art. Van Gogh had seen the changing landscape in the Netherlands as industrialization encroached on once pastoral settings and the livelihoods of the working poor with little opportunity to change vocation. Van Gogh had a particular interest in creating character studies of working men and women in the Netherlands and Belgium, such as farmers, weavers, and fishermen. Making up a large body of Van Gogh's work during this period, the character studies were an important, foundational component in his artistic development.. 
The Brazen Serpent. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Brazen Serpent is a painting by Peter Paul Rubens, probably dating to between 1635 and 1640. It is now in the National Gallery in London. Its shows a scene from the Old Testament (Numbers 21: 6–9).It seems to include some work by his students, who may have blocked it in from a modello by Rubens himself, with the artist working up the result.. The Brazen Serpent is a painting by Peter Paul Rubens, probably dating to between 1635 and 1640. It is now in the National Gallery in London. Its shows a scene from the Old Testament (Numbers 21: 6–9). It seems to include some work by his students, who may have blocked it in from a modello by Rubens himself, with the artist working up the result.. 
Portrait of a Man with the Medal of Cosimo de Medici the Elder. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Portrait of a Man with a Medal of Cosimo the Elder, also known as Portrait of a Youth with a Medal, is a tempera painting by Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli. The painting features a young man displaying in triangled hands a medal stamped with the likeness of Cosimo de' Medici. The identity of the young man has been a long-enduring mystery. Completed in approximately 1475, it is on display in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence.. Portrait of a Man with a Medal of Cosimo the Elder, also known as Portrait of a Youth with a Medal, is a tempera painting by Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli. The painting features a young man displaying in triangled hands a medal stamped with the likeness of Cosimo de' Medici. The identity of the young man has been a long-enduring mystery. Completed in approximately 1475, it is on display in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence.. 
The Fight Between Carnival and Lent. Author Name: Pieter Bruegel the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_and_Flemish_Renaissance_painting. . The Fight Between Carnival and Lent is an oil-on-panel work painted by Pieter Bruegel the Elder in 1559. This painting depicts a common festival of the period, as celebrated in the Southern Netherlands. It presents the contrast between two sides of contemporary life, as can be seen by the appearance of the inn on the left side - for enjoyment, and the church on the right side - for religious observance.The painting is part of the collection at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna.. The Fight Between Carnival and Lent is an oil-on-panel work painted by Pieter Bruegel the Elder in 1559. This painting depicts a common festival of the period, as celebrated in the Southern Netherlands. It presents the contrast between two sides of contemporary life, as can be seen by the appearance of the inn on the left side - for enjoyment, and the church on the right side - for religious observance. The busy scene depicts well-behaved children near the church and a beer drinking scene near the inn. At the centre is a well, showing the coming together of different parts of the community, and other scenes show a fish stall and two competing floats. The painting is part of the collection at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna.. 
Tea cup ballet. Author Name: Cotton, Olive. . . Tea cup ballet is a 1935 photograph by Australian modernist photographer Olive Cotton. It is arguably Cotton's best known work. The photographs depicts six tea cups and saucers lit so to form shadows that suggest the form of ballet dancers.The photograph was exhibited in the London Salon of Photography in 1935, the first work of Cotton's to be shown outside Australia.The work was featured on an Australia Post stamp in 1991 commemorating 150 years of photography.. Tea cup ballet is a 1935 photograph by Australian modernist photographer Olive Cotton. It is arguably Cotton's best known work. The photographs depicts six tea cups and saucers lit so to form shadows that suggest the form of ballet dancers. The photograph was exhibited in the London Salon of Photography in 1935, the first work of Cotton's to be shown outside Australia. The work was featured on an Australia Post stamp in 1991 commemorating 150 years of photography.. 
The Portrait. Author Name: René Magritte. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Surrealism. . The Portrait (1935) is a painting by the Belgian surrealist René Magritte.This painting is a classic example of the technique that often set Magritte apart from other surrealists. Artists like Dalí and Ernst usually depicted distorted and dream-like representations of real forms mixed with abstract shapes, whereas Magritte is best known for his realistic depictions of ordinary things made surreal by context or their relationship to each other.. The Portrait (1935) is a painting by the Belgian surrealist René Magritte. This painting is a classic example of the technique that often set Magritte apart from other surrealists. Artists like Dalí and Ernst usually depicted distorted and dream-like representations of real forms mixed with abstract shapes, whereas Magritte is best known for his realistic depictions of ordinary things made surreal by context or their relationship to each other. This painting depicts an almost photo-realistic table setting with a slice of ham in the center. The scene is made surreal by the presence of an eye staring back at the viewer from the center of the ham. This painting was once part of the private collection of the surrealist painter Kay Sage. In 1956 she donated it as a gift to the Museum of Modern Art in New York.. 
The Adoration of the Golden Calf. Author Name: Nicolas Poussin. . Author Movement: Baroque. . The Adoration of the Golden Calf is a painting by Nicolas Poussin, produced between 1633 and 1634. It depicts the adoration of the golden calf by the Israelites, from chapter 32 of the book of Exodus. It was made as part of a pair of paintings (the other being The Crossing of the Red Sea) commissioned by Amadeo dal Pozzo, Marchese di Voghera of Turin, a cousin to Cassiano dal Pozzo, Poussin's main sponsor in Rome. By 1685 the pair had passed to the Chevalier de Lorraine and in 1710 they were bought by Benigne de Ragois de Bretonvillers. In 1741 they were bought from Samuel by Sir Jacob Bouverie, whose son William became the first Earl of Radnor. The Earls of Radnor owned the pair from then until 1945, when it was split for the first time and The Adoration of the Golden Calf bought by the N. The Adoration of the Golden Calf is a painting by Nicolas Poussin, produced between 1633 and 1634. It depicts the adoration of the golden calf by the Israelites, from chapter 32 of the book of Exodus. It was made as part of a pair of paintings (the other being The Crossing of the Red Sea) commissioned by Amadeo dal Pozzo, Marchese di Voghera of Turin, a cousin to Cassiano dal Pozzo, Poussin's main sponsor in Rome. By 1685 the pair had passed to the Chevalier de Lorraine and in 1710 they were bought by Benigne de Ragois de Bretonvillers. In 1741 they were bought from Samuel by Sir Jacob Bouverie, whose son William became the first Earl of Radnor. The Earls of Radnor owned the pair from then until 1945, when it was split for the first time and The Adoration of the Golden Calf bought by the National Gallery in London for £10,000, half of which was contributed by the Art Fund. (The Crossing of the Red Sea was bought in the same 1945 sale by the National Gallery of Victoria.) It now hangs in Room 19 of the National Gallery, where it and Poussin's The Adoration of the Shepherds were vandalised with red spray paint on 17 July 2011.. 
The Pioneer. Author Name: Alexander Phimister Proctor. . . The Pioneer is a thirteen-foot-tall bronze sculpture located on the University of Oregon campus in Eugene, Oregon. It was the artistic work of Alexander Phimister Proctor, commissioned by Joseph Nathan Teal, a Portland attorney. On the day of is unveiling, May 22, 1919, a great ceremony was held complete with playing of the university orchestra. It included attendance from persons all across the state, the majority of enrolled students, and a special section of the crowd was reserved for the remaining pioneers. In fact, a pioneer by the name of T. G. Hendricks and his granddaughter held the honor of removing the canvas cover, unveiling the statue.. The Pioneer is a thirteen-foot-tall bronze sculpture located on the University of Oregon campus in Eugene, Oregon. It was the artistic work of Alexander Phimister Proctor, commissioned by Joseph Nathan Teal, a Portland attorney. On the day of is unveiling, May 22, 1919, a great ceremony was held complete with playing of the university orchestra. It included attendance from persons all across the state, the majority of enrolled students, and a special section of the crowd was reserved for the remaining pioneers. In fact, a pioneer by the name of T. G. Hendricks and his granddaughter held the honor of removing the canvas cover, unveiling the statue.. 
La Femme aux Phlox. Author Name: Albert Gleizes. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_art. . La Femme aux Phlox, also known as Woman with Phlox or Woman with Flowers, is an oil painting created in 1910 by the French artist and theorist Albert Gleizes (1881–1953). The painting was exhibited in Room 41 at the Salon des Indépendants in the Spring of 1911 (no. 2612); the exhibition that introduced Cubism as a group manifestation to the general public for the first time. The complex collection of geometric masses in restrained colors exhibited in Room 41 created a scandal from which Cubism spread throughout Paris, France, Europe and the rest of the world. It was from the preview of the works by Gleizes, Metzinger, Le Fauconnier, Delaunay and Léger at the 1911 Indépendants that the term 'Cubism' can be dated. La Femme aux Phlox was again exhibited the following year at the Salon de la S. La Femme aux Phlox, also known as Woman with Phlox or Woman with Flowers, is an oil painting created in 1910 by the French artist and theorist Albert Gleizes (1881–1953). The painting was exhibited in Room 41 at the Salon des Indépendants in the Spring of 1911 (no. 2612); the exhibition that introduced Cubism as a group manifestation to the general public for the first time. The complex collection of geometric masses in restrained colors exhibited in Room 41 created a scandal from which Cubism spread throughout Paris, France, Europe and the rest of the world. It was from the preview of the works by Gleizes, Metzinger, Le Fauconnier, Delaunay and Léger at the 1911 Indépendants that the term 'Cubism' can be dated. La Femme aux Phlox was again exhibited the following year at the Salon de la Section d'Or, Galerie La Boétie, 1912 (no. 35). La Femme aux Phlox was reproduced in The Cubist Painters, Aesthetic Meditations (Les Peintres Cubistes) by Guillaume Apollinaire, published in 1913. The same year, the painting was again revealed to the general public, this time in the United States, at the International Exhibition of Modern Art (The Armory Show), New York, Chicago, and Boston (no. 195). The work is now in the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, Gift of the Esther Florence Whinery Goodrich Foundation.. 
Martyrdom of Four Saints. Author Name: Antonio da Correggio. . Author Movement: Mannerism. . The Martyrdom of Four Saints is an oil on canvas painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Correggio, dating from around 1524 and housed in the Galleria Nazionale of Parma, Italy.. The Martyrdom of Four Saints is an oil on canvas painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Correggio, dating from around 1524 and housed in the Galleria Nazionale of Parma, Italy.. 
Metamorphosis of Narcissus. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Metamorphosis of Narcissus (1937) is an oil-on-canvas painting by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dalí. This painting is from Dalí's Paranoiac-critical period. According to Greek mythology, Narcissus fell in love with his own reflection in a pool. Unable to embrace the watery image, he pined away, and the gods immortalized him as a flower. Dalí completed this painting in 1937 on his long awaited return to Paris after having had great success in the United States.Dalí wrote the following poem, which accompanied the painting when it was initially exhibited:. Metamorphosis of Narcissus (1937) is an oil-on-canvas painting by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dalí. This painting is from Dalí's Paranoiac-critical period. According to Greek mythology, Narcissus fell in love with his own reflection in a pool. Unable to embrace the watery image, he pined away, and the gods immortalized him as a flower. Dalí completed this painting in 1937 on his long awaited return to Paris after having had great success in the United States. The painting shows Narcissus sitting in a pool, gazing down. Not far away there is a decaying stone figure which corresponds closely to him but is perceived quite differently; as a hand holding up a bulb or egg from which a Narcissus is growing. The egg has been used as a symbol for sexuality in other paintings by Dalí. In the background, a group of naked figures can be seen, while a third Narcissus like figure appears on the horizon. Dalí wrote the following poem, which accompanied the painting when it was initially exhibited:. 
Picture for Women. Author Name: Jeff Wall. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Vancouver_School. . Picture for Women is a photographic work by Canadian artist Jeff Wall. Produced in 1979, Picture for Women is a key early work in Wall's career and exemplifies a number of conceptual, material and visual concerns found in his art throughout the 1980s and 1990s. An influential photographic work, Picture for Women is a response to Édouard Manet's Un bar aux Folies Bergère and is a key photograph in the shift from small-scale black and white photographs to large-scale colour that took place in the 1980s in art photography and museum exhibitions. It is the subject of a monographic book written by David Campany and published as part of Afterall Books' One Work series.. Picture for Women is a photographic work by Canadian artist Jeff Wall. Produced in 1979, Picture for Women is a key early work in Wall's career and exemplifies a number of conceptual, material and visual concerns found in his art throughout the 1980s and 1990s. An influential photographic work, Picture for Women is a response to Édouard Manet's Un bar aux Folies Bergère and is a key photograph in the shift from small-scale black and white photographs to large-scale colour that took place in the 1980s in art photography and museum exhibitions. It is the subject of a monographic book written by David Campany and published as part of Afterall Books' One Work series.. 
Self-portrait. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Self-portrait is commonly dated between 1504 and 1506. It measures 47.5 cm by 33 cm. The portrait was noted in an inventory of the private collection of Duke Leopoldo de' Medici, completed in 1675, and later listed in the 1890 Uffizi inventory.. The Self-portrait is commonly dated between 1504 and 1506. It measures 47.5 cm by 33 cm. The portrait was noted in an inventory of the private collection of Duke Leopoldo de' Medici, completed in 1675, and later listed in the 1890 Uffizi inventory.. 
Portrait of Bindo Altoviti. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Bindo Altoviti is a painting finished around 1515 by the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael. It is housed in the National Gallery of Art of Washington, D.C., United States.Bindo Altoviti was a rich banker born in Rome in 1491, but of Florentine origin. He was a cultured man who liked the arts.A bronze bust of Altoviti by Benvenuto Cellini is exhibited in Boston at the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum.. The Portrait of Bindo Altoviti is a painting finished around 1515 by the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael. It is housed in the National Gallery of Art of Washington, D.C., United States. Bindo Altoviti was a rich banker born in Rome in 1491, but of Florentine origin. He was a cultured man who liked the arts. The graceful, almost effeminate position of the subject along with the heavy contrast between light and shadow are atypical of Raphael's work, particularly of his portraits of men, demonstrating the artist's experimentation with different styles and forms in his later Roman period. The influence of the works of Leonardo, which Raphael studied astutely during this period of his career, is strikingly evident in this particular piece. The painting was a property of Altoviti’s descendants until 1808, when it was sold to Ludwig I of Bavaria. It remained at the Alte Pinakothek until 1936, when, after many debates about its attribution, the painting was lured out of Nazi Germany by "canny English dealers". Acquired by Samuel Henry Kress, the portrait subsequently became property of the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C.. A bronze bust of Altoviti by Benvenuto Cellini is exhibited in Boston at the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum.. 
Standing Cavalier. Author Name: Judith Leyster. . . Standing Cavalier is a painting by Judith Leyster in the Royal Collection. It is the only painting by Leyster with a provenance that reaches back to the 18th-century.. Standing Cavalier is a painting by Judith Leyster in the Royal Collection. It is the only painting by Leyster with a provenance that reaches back to the 18th-century.. 
Untermyer Fountain. Author Name: Schott, Walter. . . The Untermyer Fountain is an outdoor fountain and bronze cast of Walter Schott's Three Dancing Maidens sculpture, located in Central Park's Conservatory Garden in Manhattan, New York, in the United States.. The Untermyer Fountain is an outdoor fountain and bronze cast of Walter Schott's Three Dancing Maidens sculpture, located in Central Park's Conservatory Garden in Manhattan, New York, in the United States.. 
Equestrian Portrait of Philip III. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Equestrian Portrait of Philip III is a portrait of Philip III of Spain on horseback by Diego Velázquez. It was painted in 1634/35 as part of a series of paintings of reigning monarchs, their predecessors and the Princes of Asturias for the Salón de Reinos at the Palacio del Buen Retiro. It is now in the Prado Museum.. The Equestrian Portrait of Philip III is a portrait of Philip III of Spain on horseback by Diego Velázquez. It was painted in 1634/35 as part of a series of paintings of reigning monarchs, their predecessors and the Princes of Asturias for the Salón de Reinos at the Palacio del Buen Retiro. It is now in the Prado Museum.. 
Esterhazy Madonna. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Esterhazy Madonna is a 1508 painting by Raphael, held at the Museum of Fine Arts in Budapest, in Hungary. It was stolen on the night of 5 November 1983, along with other works by Raphael, Giorgione, Tintoretto and Tiepolo - all the works, including this one, were recovered by the Italian Carabinieri in an abandoned Greek convent near Aigio.. The Esterhazy Madonna is a 1508 painting by Raphael, held at the Museum of Fine Arts in Budapest, in Hungary. It was stolen on the night of 5 November 1983, along with other works by Raphael, Giorgione, Tintoretto and Tiepolo - all the works, including this one, were recovered by the Italian Carabinieri in an abandoned Greek convent near Aigio.. 
Bust of Francesco Barberini. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Bust of Francesco Barberini is a marble sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini, now in the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C.. It was executed in 1626. It was commissioned by Pope Urban VIII, who was nephew of Francesco Barberini, an apostolic protonotary. Francesco had actually died in 1600 so Bernini created the bust from an existing painted portrait. The painted portrait is in Corsini Collection in Florence; Bernini made close use of the design, although the painting was a three quarter portrait as opposed to a bust of head, shoulders and upper body.. The Bust of Francesco Barberini is a marble sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini, now in the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C.. It was executed in 1626. It was commissioned by Pope Urban VIII, who was nephew of Francesco Barberini, an apostolic protonotary. Francesco had actually died in 1600 so Bernini created the bust from an existing painted portrait. The painted portrait is in Corsini Collection in Florence; Bernini made close use of the design, although the painting was a three quarter portrait as opposed to a bust of head, shoulders and upper body.. 
Great Piece of Turf. Author Name: Albrecht Dürer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Great Piece of Turf (German: Das große Rasenstück) is a watercolor painting by Albrecht Dürer. The painting was created at Dürer's workshop in Nuremberg in 1503. It is a study of a seemingly random group of wild plants, including dandelion and greater plantain. The work is considered one of the masterpieces of Dürer's realistic nature studies.. The Great Piece of Turf (German: Das große Rasenstück) is a watercolor painting by Albrecht Dürer. The painting was created at Dürer's workshop in Nuremberg in 1503. It is a study of a seemingly random group of wild plants, including dandelion and greater plantain. The work is considered one of the masterpieces of Dürer's realistic nature studies.. 
Portrait of Vincenzo Mosti. Author Name: Titian. . . Portrait of Vincenzo Mosti is a painting by Titian, executed around 1520 and now housed in the Galleria Palatina of Florence, Italy.. Portrait of Vincenzo Mosti is a painting by Titian, executed around 1520 and now housed in the Galleria Palatina of Florence, Italy.. 
A Lady and Gentleman in Black. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . A Lady and Gentleman in Black is a painting by the Dutch artist Rembrandt, painted in 1633. The oil-on-canvas painting measures 131.6 by 109 centimetres (51.8 in × 42.9 in). The painting hung in the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum of Boston, Massachusetts, prior to being stolen in 1990.. A Lady and Gentleman in Black is a painting by the Dutch artist Rembrandt, painted in 1633. The oil-on-canvas painting measures 131.6 by 109 centimetres (51.8 in × 42.9 in). The painting hung in the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum of Boston, Massachusetts, prior to being stolen in 1990.. 
Regatta at Sainte-Adresse. Author Name: Claude Monet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Regatta at Sainte-Adresse is a painting by the impressionist painter Claude Monet. Signed (lower left): Claude Monet.This painting and "The Beach in Sainte-Adresse" (Art Institute of Chicago) were probably conceived as a pair. They are identical in size, and their viewing point differs by only a few yards.On 25 June 1867, Monet reported that he was working on about twenty pictures:. The Regatta at Sainte-Adresse is a painting by the impressionist painter Claude Monet. Signed (lower left): Claude Monet. This painting and "The Beach in Sainte-Adresse" (Art Institute of Chicago) were probably conceived as a pair. They are identical in size, and their viewing point differs by only a few yards. Sainte-Adresse, the well-to-do suburb of Le Havre, was the home of Monet's father. Destitute, Monet spent the summer of 1867 with his father and aunt Sophie Lecadre at the cost of abandoning his companion, Camille Doncieux, and their newborn son, Jean. Monet attended the birth in Paris and returned to the coast a few days later. The pair of paintings juxtaposes this sunny regatta watched at high tide by well dressed bourgeois, with an overcast scene at low tide, fishing boats hauled onto the beach peopled with sailors and workers. Since Monet never exhibited the paintings side by side, the contrast between them was probably not intended as a social manifesto but instead reflected differing conditions under which the same place could be painted. On 25 June 1867, Monet reported that he was working on about twenty pictures:. 
Cromwell, Protector of the Vaudois. Author Name: Ford Madox Brown. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pre-Raphaelite_Brotherhood. . Cromwell, Protector of the Vaudois (1877) is a painting by Ford Madox Brown which depicts Oliver Cromwell in conversation with John Milton dictating a letter to Andrew Marvell protesting at the Piedmont Easter massacre (1655), an attack on the Vaudois (Waldenses), a persecuted Protestant sect in Piedmont, northern Italy. It was Brown's second Cromwell painting, following Cromwell on his Farm (1875).. Cromwell, Protector of the Vaudois (1877) is a painting by Ford Madox Brown which depicts Oliver Cromwell in conversation with John Milton dictating a letter to Andrew Marvell protesting at the Piedmont Easter massacre (1655), an attack on the Vaudois (Waldenses), a persecuted Protestant sect in Piedmont, northern Italy. It was Brown's second Cromwell painting, following Cromwell on his Farm (1875).. 
Neukom Vivarium. Author Name: Dion, Mark. . . Neukom Vivarium is a 2006 mixed media installation by American artist Mark Dion, located at Olympic Sculpture Park in Seattle, Washington, United States. The work features a 60-foot (18 m) Western hemlock that fell outside of Seattle in 1996, acting as a nurse log within an 80-foot (24 m) greenhouse. According to the Seattle Art Museum, which operates the park, the tree "inhabits an art system" consisting of bacteria, fungi, insects, lichen and plants. The installation supplies magnifying glasses to visitors wanting a closer inspection; they are provided field guides in the form of tiles.. Neukom Vivarium is a 2006 mixed media installation by American artist Mark Dion, located at Olympic Sculpture Park in Seattle, Washington, United States. The work features a 60-foot (18 m) Western hemlock that fell outside of Seattle in 1996, acting as a nurse log within an 80-foot (24 m) greenhouse. According to the Seattle Art Museum, which operates the park, the tree "inhabits an art system" consisting of bacteria, fungi, insects, lichen and plants. The installation supplies magnifying glasses to visitors wanting a closer inspection; they are provided field guides in the form of tiles. The installation was donated by Bill and Sally Neukom, American Express Company, Seattle Garden Club, Mark Torrance Foundation and Committee of 33, in honor of the Seattle Art Museum's 75th anniversary. It was Dion's first permanent public work of art in the United States. The architect for the structure was Owen Richards Architects.. 
Bust of Louis XIV. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Bust of Louis XIV is a marble portrait by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. It was created in the year 1665 during Bernini's visit to Paris. This sculptural portrait of Louis XIV of France has been called the "grandest piece of portraiture of the baroque age". The bust is on display at the Versailles Palace, in the Salon de Diane in the King's Grand Apartment.. The Bust of Louis XIV is a marble portrait by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. It was created in the year 1665 during Bernini's visit to Paris. This sculptural portrait of Louis XIV of France has been called the "grandest piece of portraiture of the baroque age". The bust is on display at the Versailles Palace, in the Salon de Diane in the King's Grand Apartment.. 
City Reflections. Author Name: Patti Warashina. . . City Reflections is an outdoor 2009 bronze sculpture by Patti Warashina, located in downtown Portland, Oregon.. City Reflections is an outdoor 2009 bronze sculpture by Patti Warashina, located in downtown Portland, Oregon.. 
Woman Ironing. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Woman Ironing (1904) is an oil painting by Pablo Picasso completed during the artist's Blue Period (1901—1904). This evocative image, painted in neutral tones of blue and gray, depicts an emaciated woman with hollowed eyes, sunken cheeks, and bent form, as she presses down on an iron with all her will. A recurrent subject matter for Picasso during this time is the desolation of social outsiders. This painting, as the rest of his works of the Blue Period, is inspired by his life in Spain but was painted in Paris.. Woman Ironing (1904) is an oil painting by Pablo Picasso completed during the artist's Blue Period (1901—1904). This evocative image, painted in neutral tones of blue and gray, depicts an emaciated woman with hollowed eyes, sunken cheeks, and bent form, as she presses down on an iron with all her will. A recurrent subject matter for Picasso during this time is the desolation of social outsiders. This painting, as the rest of his works of the Blue Period, is inspired by his life in Spain but was painted in Paris. When Picasso painted Woman Ironing he was roughly 22 years old. Living in Paris, with little money, he would often start a painting on a canvas, abandon it, and later use the same surface to paint over a new work. Since 1989, when an infrared camera was used to examine Woman Ironing, art historians and conservators have been aware of the existence of another portrait beneath it. The work is part of the Thannhauser Collection currently on display in the Thannhauser Gallery of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York.. 
Barbara altar. Author Name: Master Francke. . . The Saint Barbara Altarpiece is a medieval altarpiece attributed to Master Francke. Its known provenance starts at the medieval church in Kalanti in Southwest Finland where it stood until 1883. According to local oral tradition that was collected in the 19th century, the altarpiece was found floating in the sea outside Kalanti. The altarpiece is now located at the National Museum of Finland.The altarpiece is best known for the paintings depicting the legend of Saint Barbara on the outside of its inner wings.. The Saint Barbara Altarpiece is a medieval altarpiece attributed to Master Francke. Its known provenance starts at the medieval church in Kalanti in Southwest Finland where it stood until 1883. According to local oral tradition that was collected in the 19th century, the altarpiece was found floating in the sea outside Kalanti. The altarpiece is now located at the National Museum of Finland. The altarpiece is best known for the paintings depicting the legend of Saint Barbara on the outside of its inner wings.. 
Fishing in Spring, the Pont de Clichy. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Asnières (paintings), now named Asnières-sur-Seine, is the subject and location of paintings that Vincent van Gogh made in 1887. The works, which include parks, restaurants, riverside settings and factories, mark a break-through in Van Gogh's artistic development. In the Netherlands Van Gogh was influenced by great Dutch masters as well as Anton Mauve a Dutch realist painter who was a leading member of the Hague School. Mauve was a significant early influence on his cousin-in-law Vincent van Gogh. In Paris Van Gogh was exposed to and influenced by Impressionism, Symbolism, Pointillism, and Japanese woodblock print genres.. Asnières (paintings), now named Asnières-sur-Seine, is the subject and location of paintings that Vincent van Gogh made in 1887. The works, which include parks, restaurants, riverside settings and factories, mark a break-through in Van Gogh's artistic development. In the Netherlands Van Gogh was influenced by great Dutch masters as well as Anton Mauve a Dutch realist painter who was a leading member of the Hague School. Mauve was a significant early influence on his cousin-in-law Vincent van Gogh. In Paris Van Gogh was exposed to and influenced by Impressionism, Symbolism, Pointillism, and Japanese woodblock print genres. For Van Gogh's first twelve months in Paris he absorbed a lot of information about modern art from the best of the avant-garde artists of the time, but in practice his work in 1886 and early 1887 varied little from his paintings in the Netherlands. The spring of 1887 Van Gogh stayed with Émile Bernard and his parents in Asnières and the budding spring seemed to trigger an awakening within Van Gogh where he experimented with the genres to develop his personal style. In a country setting, undergoing industrialization, Van Gogh was able to depict his reverence for rural life and express concern about encroachment of industrialization. With new techniques, Van Gogh produced paintings evoked tenderness of couples taking a walk in the park or social commentary about the ways in which factories affected country life.. 
St Martin-in-the-Fields. Author Name: Logsdail, William. . . St Martin-in-the-Fields is a painting of a child street vendor in Trafalgar Square, painted by William Logsdail from 1888.. St Martin-in-the-Fields is a painting of a child street vendor in Trafalgar Square, painted by William Logsdail from 1888.. 
Gare Montparnasse. Author Name: Giorgio de Chirico. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Metaphysical_art. . Gare Montparnasse (The Melancholy of Departure) (Italian: La stazione di Montparnasse) (1914) is a painting by the Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio de Chirico. Many of de Chirico’s works were inspired by the introspective feelings evoked by travel. He was born in Greece to Italian parents. This work was painted during a period when he lived in Paris.In 1916, de Chirico painted another work simply titled The Melancholy of Departure.. Gare Montparnasse (The Melancholy of Departure) (Italian: La stazione di Montparnasse) (1914) is a painting by the Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio de Chirico. Many of de Chirico’s works were inspired by the introspective feelings evoked by travel. He was born in Greece to Italian parents. This work was painted during a period when he lived in Paris. The painting depicts the Gare Montparnasse railway station in Paris, France. It is a classic example of de Chirico’s style, depicting an angular perspective on an outdoor architectural setting in the long shadows and deep colours of early evening. On the horizon is a steam train with a plume of white smoke billowing away from it. The train image appears several times in de Chirico's work. In the foreground is a bunch of bananas, another recurring image in de Chirico's work (cf. Le Rêve Transformé). In 1916, de Chirico painted another work simply titled The Melancholy of Departure.. 
Stone Flower. Author Name: Bogdan Bogdanović. . . Stone Flower is a monument to the victims of Ustasha atrocities during World War II in Jasenovac. Designed by Bogdan Bogdanović and unveiled in 1966, it serves as a reminder of the atrocities perpetrated in the Jasenovac concentration camp.. Stone Flower is a monument to the victims of Ustasha atrocities during World War II in Jasenovac. Designed by Bogdan Bogdanović and unveiled in 1966, it serves as a reminder of the atrocities perpetrated in the Jasenovac concentration camp.. 
Portrait of Pope Julius II. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Portrait of Pope Julius II is an oil painting of 1511–12 by the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael. The portrait of Pope Julius II was unusual for its time and would carry a long influence on papal portraiture. From early in its life, it was specially hung at the pillars of the church of Santa Maria del Popolo, on the main route from the north into Rome, on feast and high holy days. Giorgio Vasari, writing long after Julius' death, said that "it was so lifelike and true it frightened everyone who saw it, as if it were the living man himself".. Portrait of Pope Julius II is an oil painting of 1511–12 by the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael. The portrait of Pope Julius II was unusual for its time and would carry a long influence on papal portraiture. From early in its life, it was specially hung at the pillars of the church of Santa Maria del Popolo, on the main route from the north into Rome, on feast and high holy days. Giorgio Vasari, writing long after Julius' death, said that "it was so lifelike and true it frightened everyone who saw it, as if it were the living man himself". The painting exists in many versions and copies, and for many years, a version of the painting which now hangs in the Uffizi Gallery in Florence was believed to be the original or prime version, but in 1970 opinion shifted. The original is currently believed to be the version owned by the National Gallery, London.. 
The Torment of Saint Anthony. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Torment of Saint Anthony is the earliest known painting by Michelangelo, painted after an engraving by Martin Schongauer when he was only 12 or 13 years old. It is currently in the permanent collection of the Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth, Texas. It shows the common medieval subject, included in the Golden Legend and other sources, of Saint Anthony being assailed in the desert by demons, whose temptations he resisted; the Temptation of St Anthony (or "Trial") is the more common name of the subject. But this composition shows a later episode where St Anthony, normally flown about the desert supported by angels, was ambushed in mid-air by devils.. The Torment of Saint Anthony is the earliest known painting by Michelangelo, painted after an engraving by Martin Schongauer when he was only 12 or 13 years old. It is currently in the permanent collection of the Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth, Texas. It shows the common medieval subject, included in the Golden Legend and other sources, of Saint Anthony being assailed in the desert by demons, whose temptations he resisted; the Temptation of St Anthony (or "Trial") is the more common name of the subject. But this composition shows a later episode where St Anthony, normally flown about the desert supported by angels, was ambushed in mid-air by devils. The painting was previously attributed to the workshop of Domenico Ghirlandaio, under whom Michelangelo had served his apprenticeship. Under that attribution it was bought at a Sotheby's auction in July 2008 by an American art dealer for US$2 million. When the export license was obtained that September, it was brought to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, where it was cleaned of discoloured varnish and later overpainting and closely examined for the first time. On the basis of stylistic hallmarks such as "emphatic cross hatching", it was decided that the painting was indeed by Michelangelo. It was soon bought by the Kimbell Art Museum for an undisclosed amount, believed to be in excess of $6 million. Giorgio Vasari in his Lives of the Artists noted that Michelangelo had painted St. Anthony after a print by Schongauer, and Ascanio Condivi recorded that Michelangelo had gone to a market to draw fish scales, a feature not present in the original engraving. Besides this enhancement, Michelangelo also added a landscape below the figures, and altered the expression of the saint. It is one of only four surviving panel paintings by Michelangelo, whom Vasari records as speaking disparagingly of oil painting in later life, and the only one, if the new attribution holds, from his adolescence. Schongauer's late-Gothic style is also in strong contrast with the rest of Michelangelo's oeuvre, even in his youth. The prints of Schongauer, just reaching the end of his long life when Michelangelo copied him, were widely distributed in Europe, including Italy.. 
Battle of Grunwald. Author Name: Jan Matejko. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/History_painting. . The Battle of Grunwald is a painting by Jan Matejko depicting the Battle of Grunwald and the victory of the allied Crown of the Kingdom of Poland and Grand Duchy of Lithuania over the Teutonic Order in 1410. The canvas dates to 1878 and is one of the most heroic representations of the history of Poland. It is displayed in the National Museum in Warsaw.. The Battle of Grunwald is a painting by Jan Matejko depicting the Battle of Grunwald and the victory of the allied Crown of the Kingdom of Poland and Grand Duchy of Lithuania over the Teutonic Order in 1410. The canvas dates to 1878 and is one of the most heroic representations of the history of Poland. It is displayed in the National Museum in Warsaw. The painting's main focus is the death scene of the Grand Master of the Teutonic Order, Ulrich von Jungingen; another central figure is the Lithuanian duke Vytautas (Witold), dressed in red with a raised sword. The painting has been both hailed and criticized for its complexity. It is one of Matejko's most recognizable works, and has likely contributed to the popular image of the battle of Grunwald, and its enduring fame in Polish consciousness.. 
Saint Peter and Saint Paul. Author Name: El Greco. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . Saint Peter and Saint Paul is a painting by the Cretan-Spanish artist El Greco. The work was completed between 1590 and 1600. It is currently on display at the Museu Nacional d'Art de Catalunya, who purchased the work in 1932.. Saint Peter and Saint Paul is a painting by the Cretan-Spanish artist El Greco. The work was completed between 1590 and 1600. It is currently on display at the Museu Nacional d'Art de Catalunya, who purchased the work in 1932.. 
Annunciation. Author Name: Fra' Filippo Lippi, O.Carm.. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Annunciation is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Filippo Lippi. Dating to of 1440-45, it is housed in the Galleria Nazionale d'Arte Antica of Palazzo Barberini, Rome.The composition pivots around the Virgin, who occupies the centre of the scene. In the background, on the right, two small figures of women are riding a stair. The two donor portraits show the unknown donors kneeling behind a cordonata. That they were represented in natural size (i.e., in the same size as the religious figures) was a relatively new stylistic feature.. The Annunciation is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Filippo Lippi. Dating to of 1440-45, it is housed in the Galleria Nazionale d'Arte Antica of Palazzo Barberini, Rome. The composition pivots around the Virgin, who occupies the centre of the scene. In the background, on the right, two small figures of women are riding a stair. The two donor portraits show the unknown donors kneeling behind a cordonata. That they were represented in natural size (i.e., in the same size as the religious figures) was a relatively new stylistic feature.. 
Zuccone. Author Name: Donatello. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . Lo Zuccone ([lo dzukˈkoːne]; Italian: literally, pumpkin; figuratively bald-head) is a marble statue by Donatello. It was commissioned for the bell tower of the Florence Cathedral of Florence, Italy and completed between 1423 and 1425. It is also known as the Statue of the Prophet Habakkuk, as many believe it depicts the Biblical figure Habakkuk.. Lo Zuccone ([lo dzukˈkoːne]; Italian: literally, pumpkin; figuratively bald-head) is a marble statue by Donatello. It was commissioned for the bell tower of the Florence Cathedral of Florence, Italy and completed between 1423 and 1425. It is also known as the Statue of the Prophet Habakkuk, as many believe it depicts the Biblical figure Habakkuk. The statue is known for its realism and naturalism, which differed from most statuary commissioned at the time.. Zuccone is reported to have been Donatello's favorite, and he was said to swear by the sculpture, "By the faith I place in my Zuccone." Donatello is said to have shouted "speak, damn you, speak!" at the marble as he was carving it. It has been described as the most important marble sculpture of the fifteenth century. It is now in the Museo dell'Opera del Duomo in Florence.. 
Gwenfritz. Author Name: Alexander "Sandy" Calder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstraction_(art). . Gwenfritz is a painted steel abstract stabile, by Alexander Calder.It is located at the National Museum of American History, at 14th Street, and Constitution Avenue, in Washington, D.C.It was dedicated on June 2, 1969. In 1983, it was relocated from the west front fountain plaza, to a corner location. It is planned to be relocated to its original location.It is named after Gwendolyn Cafritz, widow of Morris Cafritz, who had helped finance the project as head of the Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation.. Gwenfritz is a painted steel abstract stabile, by Alexander Calder.It is located at the National Museum of American History, at 14th Street, and Constitution Avenue, in Washington, D.C. It was dedicated on June 2, 1969. In 1983, it was relocated from the west front fountain plaza, to a corner location. It is planned to be relocated to its original location. It is named after Gwendolyn Cafritz, widow of Morris Cafritz, who had helped finance the project as head of the Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation.. 
Boy Carrying a Sword. Author Name: Édouard Manet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Boy Carrying a Sword is an 1861 oil painting by the French artist Édouard Manet and is now displayed at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. The work depicts a small boy costumed as a page of the Spanish court of the seventeenth century; he is holding a full-sized sword and sword belt. The work was later reproduced as an engraving under the direction of Dijon painter and etcher Alphonse Legros who collaborated in the work.The artist's model was Leon Leenhoff, the stepson of the artist after his marriage to Suzanne in 1862.. Boy Carrying a Sword is an 1861 oil painting by the French artist Édouard Manet and is now displayed at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. The work depicts a small boy costumed as a page of the Spanish court of the seventeenth century; he is holding a full-sized sword and sword belt. The work was later reproduced as an engraving under the direction of Dijon painter and etcher Alphonse Legros who collaborated in the work. According to Émile Zola, the work is typical of the influence of Spanish painters and shows the strong influence Diego Velázquez and Frans Hals had on Manet at the time. The artist's model was Leon Leenhoff, the stepson of the artist after his marriage to Suzanne in 1862.. 
Window at Tangier. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . Window at Tangier by Henri Matisse (1912 - The Pushkin Museum of Fine Arts, Moscow); also referred to as La Fenêtre à Tanger, Paysage vu d'une fenêtre, and Landscape viewed from a window, Tangiers.An example of Matisse's paintings after the colorful revolution of his Fauvism period. After several trips outside France Matisse became interested in the Islamic art of North Africa. He visited Morocco in 1912 and 1913. Window in Tangier, with its bold color and flat perspective reflects a Moroccan influence in Matisse's work.. Window at Tangier by Henri Matisse (1912 - The Pushkin Museum of Fine Arts, Moscow); also referred to as La Fenêtre à Tanger, Paysage vu d'une fenêtre, and Landscape viewed from a window, Tangiers. An example of Matisse's paintings after the colorful revolution of his Fauvism period. After several trips outside France Matisse became interested in the Islamic art of North Africa. He visited Morocco in 1912 and 1913. Window in Tangier, with its bold color and flat perspective reflects a Moroccan influence in Matisse's work. This was among several works acquired directly from Matisse in Paris by the Russian collector Ivan Morozov. After the Russian Revolution the Morozov collection was confiscated and eventually by 1948 the collection was donated to the public along with the Sergei Shchukin collection, at the Pushkin Museum of Fine Arts in Moscow and the Hermitage in St Petersburg.. 
Portrait of a Gentleman with a Lion Paw. Author Name: Lorenzo Lotto. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Portrait of a Gentleman with a Lion Paw is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Lorenzo Lotto, dating to c. 1527. It is housed in the Kunsthistorisches Museum of Vienna, Austria.. The Portrait of a Gentleman with a Lion Paw is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Lorenzo Lotto, dating to c. 1527. It is housed in the Kunsthistorisches Museum of Vienna, Austria.. 
Ursa Major. Author Name: Underhill, William. . . Ursa Major is a public art work by artist William Underhill located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The trapezoidal abstract sculpture is made of Cor-Ten steel; it is installed on the lawn.. Ursa Major is a public art work by artist William Underhill located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The trapezoidal abstract sculpture is made of Cor-Ten steel; it is installed on the lawn.. 
'Sheltering a Christian Missionary. Author Name: William Holman Hunt. . . A Converted British Family Sheltering a Christian Missionary from the Persecution of the Druids is a painting by William Holman Hunt that was exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1850 and is now in the Ashmolean Museum in Oxford. It was a companion to John Everett Millais's Christ in the House of His Parents. Both artists sought to depict similar episodes from very early Christian history, portraying families helping an injured individual. Both also stressed the primitivism of the scene.. A Converted British Family Sheltering a Christian Missionary from the Persecution of the Druids is a painting by William Holman Hunt that was exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1850 and is now in the Ashmolean Museum in Oxford. It was a companion to John Everett Millais's Christ in the House of His Parents. Both artists sought to depict similar episodes from very early Christian history, portraying families helping an injured individual. Both also stressed the primitivism of the scene.. 
The Madonna of the Rabbit. Author Name: Titian. . . The Madonna of the Rabbit is an oil painting by Titian, dated to 1530 and now held in the Louvre in Paris. It is signed "Ticianus f." and is named after the white rabbit held in Mary's left hand. The rabbit is a symbol of fertility and - due to its whiteness - of Mary's purity and the mystery of the Incarnation, and is also a symbol of her Virginity; female rabbits and hares can conceive a second litter of offspring while still pregnant with the first, resulting in them being able to give birth seemingly without having been impregnated.. The Madonna of the Rabbit is an oil painting by Titian, dated to 1530 and now held in the Louvre in Paris. It is signed "Ticianus f." and is named after the white rabbit held in Mary's left hand. The rabbit is a symbol of fertility and - due to its whiteness - of Mary's purity and the mystery of the Incarnation, and is also a symbol of her Virginity; female rabbits and hares can conceive a second litter of offspring while still pregnant with the first, resulting in them being able to give birth seemingly without having been impregnated.. 
My God, Help Me to Survive This Deadly Love. Author Name: Vrubel,Dmitri. . . My God, Help Me to Survive This Deadly Love (Russian: «Господи! Помоги мне выжить среди этой смертной любви» Gospodi! Pomogi mne vyzhit' sredi etoy smertnoy lyubvi, German: Mein Gott, hilf mir, diese tödliche Liebe zu überleben), sometimes referred to as the Fraternal Kiss (German: Bruderkuss), is a graffiti painting on the Berlin wall by Dmitri Vrubel, one of the best known of the Berlin wall graffiti paintings. Created in 1990, the painting depicts Leonid Brezhnev and Erich Honecker in a fraternal embrace, reproducing a photograph that captured the moment in 1979 during the 30th anniversary celebration of the foundation of the German Democratic Republic.. My God, Help Me to Survive This Deadly Love (Russian: «Господи! Помоги мне выжить среди этой смертной любви» Gospodi! Pomogi mne vyzhit' sredi etoy smertnoy lyubvi, German: Mein Gott, hilf mir, diese tödliche Liebe zu überleben), sometimes referred to as the Fraternal Kiss (German: Bruderkuss), is a graffiti painting on the Berlin wall by Dmitri Vrubel, one of the best known of the Berlin wall graffiti paintings. Created in 1990, the painting depicts Leonid Brezhnev and Erich Honecker in a fraternal embrace, reproducing a photograph that captured the moment in 1979 during the 30th anniversary celebration of the foundation of the German Democratic Republic.. 
Still Life with Lemons, Oranges and a Rose. Author Name: Francisco Zurbarán. . Author Movement: Caravaggisti. . Still Life with Lemons, Oranges and a Rose is an oil-on-canvas painting by Baroque Spanish artist Francisco de Zurbarán completed in 1633. It is currently displayed at the Norton Simon Museum in Pasadena, California as part of its permanent collection. It holds the distinction of being the only still life that was signed and dated by the artist and is considered a masterwork of the genre.. Still Life with Lemons, Oranges and a Rose is an oil-on-canvas painting by Baroque Spanish artist Francisco de Zurbarán completed in 1633. It is currently displayed at the Norton Simon Museum in Pasadena, California as part of its permanent collection. It holds the distinction of being the only still life that was signed and dated by the artist and is considered a masterwork of the genre.. 
Mrs. Richard Brinsley Sheridan. Author Name: Thomas Gainsborough. . . Mrs. Richard Brinsley Sheridan (1787) is an oil on canvas portrait painted by Thomas Gainsborough between 1785 and 1787. It was acquired by the National Gallery of Art in 1937. Mrs. Sheridan (Elizabeth Ann Linley) was a talented musician who enjoyed professional success in Bath and London before marrying Richard Brinsley Sheridan in 1773 and abandoning her career. She was 31 when she sat for Gainsborough, dying from tuberculosis seven years later at the age of thirty-eight. The portrait was painted between 1785 and 1787, and, was exhibited at Gainsborough's studio at Schomberg House, Pall Mall in 1786.. Mrs. Richard Brinsley Sheridan (1787) is an oil on canvas portrait painted by Thomas Gainsborough between 1785 and 1787. It was acquired by the National Gallery of Art in 1937. Mrs. Sheridan (Elizabeth Ann Linley) was a talented musician who enjoyed professional success in Bath and London before marrying Richard Brinsley Sheridan in 1773 and abandoning her career. She was 31 when she sat for Gainsborough, dying from tuberculosis seven years later at the age of thirty-eight. The portrait was painted between 1785 and 1787, and, was exhibited at Gainsborough's studio at Schomberg House, Pall Mall in 1786.. 
The Dance. Author Name: Ridgway, Linda. . . The Dance is an outdoor 2000 bronze sculpture by Linda Ridgway, installed at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston's Lillie and Hugh Roy Cullen Sculpture Garden in the U.S. state of Texas. It was commissioned by the museum "in celebration of the life of Karen H. Susman from the Partners and Spouses at Susman Godfrey".. The Dance is an outdoor 2000 bronze sculpture by Linda Ridgway, installed at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston's Lillie and Hugh Roy Cullen Sculpture Garden in the U.S. state of Texas. It was commissioned by the museum "in celebration of the life of Karen H. Susman from the Partners and Spouses at Susman Godfrey".. 
Old Woman Frying Eggs. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Old Woman Frying Eggs is a genre painting by Diego Velázquez, produced during his Seville period. The date is not precisely known but is thought to be around the turn of 1618 before his definitive move to Madrid in 1623. It is now in the National Gallery of Scotland in Edinburgh. Velázquez frequently used working-class characters in early works like this one, in many cases using his family as models; the old woman here also appears in his Christ in the House of Martha and Mary (1618).. Old Woman Frying Eggs is a genre painting by Diego Velázquez, produced during his Seville period. The date is not precisely known but is thought to be around the turn of 1618 before his definitive move to Madrid in 1623. It is now in the National Gallery of Scotland in Edinburgh. Velázquez frequently used working-class characters in early works like this one, in many cases using his family as models; the old woman here also appears in his Christ in the House of Martha and Mary (1618). Like other early works by the artist, it shows the influence of chiaroscuro, with a strong light source coming in from the left illuminating the woman, her utensils and the poaching eggs, while throwing the background and the boy standing to her right into deep shadow. Here the chiaroscuro is very intense, so much so that it would be impossible to see the wall at the bottom of the painting but for the basket hanging from it; it simultaneously manages to combine the murky darkness and high contrasts of light and shadow with the use of subtle hues and a palette dominated by ochres and browns. The composition is organised as an oval with the middle figures in the nearest plane, thus drawing in the viewer. The realism is nearly photographic and shows everyday plates, cutlery, pans, pestles, jugs and mortars, capturing the special shine on a glass surface and the light's play on the melon carried by the boy. The boiling pan is particularly well-captured, with its spitting oil and the whites of the eggs. Velázquez also worked particularly hard on the detail of the two figures's hands.. 
Portrait of a Man. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Portrait of a Man is an early work by the Italian Renaissance painter Raphael. It has previously been attributed to Hans Holbein and Perugino.. The Portrait of a Man is an early work by the Italian Renaissance painter Raphael. It has previously been attributed to Hans Holbein and Perugino.. 
Appomattox. Author Name: Caspar Buberl. . . Appomattox is the name of a bronze statue that is positioned in the center of the intersection of South Washington Street (Virginia Route 400) and Prince Street in Old Town, Alexandria, Virginia, in the United States. It was created by sculptor M. Caspar Buberl and commissioned and erected by the Robert E. Lee camp of the United Confederate Veterans in 1889. The form of the soldier was designed by John Adams Elder, who modeled it after a painting of the same title that shows a lone Confederate viewing the aftermath of the battle of Appomattox Court House, where Gen. Robert E. Lee ultimately surrendered to Union general Ulysses S. Grant.. Appomattox is the name of a bronze statue that is positioned in the center of the intersection of South Washington Street (Virginia Route 400) and Prince Street in Old Town, Alexandria, Virginia, in the United States. It was created by sculptor M. Caspar Buberl and commissioned and erected by the Robert E. Lee camp of the United Confederate Veterans in 1889. The form of the soldier was designed by John Adams Elder, who modeled it after a painting of the same title that shows a lone Confederate viewing the aftermath of the battle of Appomattox Court House, where Gen. Robert E. Lee ultimately surrendered to Union general Ulysses S. Grant. The dedication ceremony was held on May 24, 1889, and was attended by a vast crowd. It was noted that by noon of that day, a great influx of visitors had swarmed the town of Alexandria to take part in the ceremony, which was overseen by Fitzhugh Lee, who was governor of Virginia at that time. Joseph E. Johnston, former Confederate general of the Army of Tennessee, was also in attendance. The UCV foresaw the controversy that would potentially arise over the monument. Thus, they motioned in the same year to have it protected by state law. This legal protection continues as of 2010.. 
The Hungry Lion Throws Itself on the Antelope. Author Name: Henri Rousseau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Naïve_art. . The Hungry Lion Throws Itself on the Antelope (Le lion ayant faim se jette sur l'antilope) is a large oil-on-canvas painting created by Henri Rousseau in 1905. Following Scouts Attacked by a Tiger the previous year, The Hungry Lion was the second jungle painting to mark Rousseau's return to this genre after a 10-year hiatus caused by the generally negative reception to his 1891 painting, Tiger in a Tropical Storm.The magazine L'Illustration printed a copy of the work in its edition of 4 November 1905, with works by Matisse, Derain, Cézanne and Vuillard.. The Hungry Lion Throws Itself on the Antelope (Le lion ayant faim se jette sur l'antilope) is a large oil-on-canvas painting created by Henri Rousseau in 1905. Following Scouts Attacked by a Tiger the previous year, The Hungry Lion was the second jungle painting to mark Rousseau's return to this genre after a 10-year hiatus caused by the generally negative reception to his 1891 painting, Tiger in a Tropical Storm. The Hungry Lion features a jungle scene of thick green foliage lit by a deep red setting sun. In the foreground, a lion bites deeply into the neck of an antelope. Other animals are visible in the dense undergrowth: a panther watches from the right, an owl stares out of the background holding a bloody strand of meat in its beak in the centre, with a second bird to its left, and dark ape-like shape with gimlet eye lurks to the left. Rousseau based the central pair of animals on a diorama of stuffed animals at the Paris Muséum national d'histoire naturelle, entitled Senegal Lion Devouring an Antelope. Rousseau's first jungle painting, Tiger in a Tropical Storm, was rejected by the Académie de peinture et de sculpture for their official Paris Salon, but he was able to show it at the 1891 Salon des Indépendants. Despite his increasing reputation, Rousseau continued to exhibit his works at the annual Salon des Indépendants, but The Hungry Lion was first shown at a third show, the Salon d'Automne, in 1905, alongside works by Matisse and Derain. Rousseau wrote a longer subtitle or caption to accompany his painting: The magazine L'Illustration printed a copy of the work in its edition of 4 November 1905, with works by Matisse, Derain, Cézanne and Vuillard. The avante garde works on display at the 1905 Salon d'Automne were decried by art critic Louis Vauxcelles as, "Donatello chez les fauves" (Donatello among the wild beasts), contrasting the paintings with a Renaissance-style sculpture displayed in the same room at the Grand Palais. Vauxcelles’ comment was printed on 17 October 1905 in Gil Blas, a daily newspaper, and the term Fauvism passed into popular usage for the type of work exhibited, of seeming simplicity in vibrant colours. The very term Fauvism may have been influenced directly by Rousseau's The Hungry Lion, although Rousseau was not himself counted as a Fauve. Despite their apparent simplicity, Rousseau's jungle paintings were built up meticulously in layers, using a large number of green shades to capture the lush exuberance of the jungle. Rousseau's work continued to be derided by the critics up to and after his death in 1910, but he won a following among his contemporaries: Picasso, Matisse, and Toulouse-Lautrec were all admirers of his work. The Hungry Lion is now held by the Fondation Beyeler and is exhibited at their gallery at Riehen, near Basel, in Switzerland. Previously. in 1905, it had been exhibited in the Salon des Independants, in Paris.. 
Old Man with a Gold Chain. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Old Man with a Gold Chain is a portrait by Rembrandt, painted around 1631 and now in the Art Institute of Chicago.This painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1915, who wrote; "675. HARMEN GERRITSZ VAN RIJN. Half-length, without hands ; almost life size. He is inclined to the left, but his head and eyes are turned to the right. He wears a dark purple cloak, over which hangs a gold chain with a medallion. Round his neck is a small close-fitting steel gorget. In his right ear is a pearl. He has a short greyish beard, and curly hair covered by a broad-brimmed black hat with two dark ostrich feathers. Painted about 1631. Signed on the left at foot with the monogram "R H L" ; canvas, 32 inches by 30 inches. There are copies :. Old Man with a Gold Chain is a portrait by Rembrandt, painted around 1631 and now in the Art Institute of Chicago. This painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1915, who wrote; "675. HARMEN GERRITSZ VAN RIJN. Half-length, without hands ; almost life size. He is inclined to the left, but his head and eyes are turned to the right. He wears a dark purple cloak, over which hangs a gold chain with a medallion. Round his neck is a small close-fitting steel gorget. In his right ear is a pearl. He has a short greyish beard, and curly hair covered by a broad-brimmed black hat with two dark ostrich feathers. Painted about 1631. Signed on the left at foot with the monogram "R H L" ; canvas, 32 inches by 30 inches. There are copies : Exhibited at Düsseldorf, 1912, No. 43. Sale. M. P. W. Boulton, London, December 9, 1911, No. 14. In the possession of P. and D. Colnaghi and Obach, London. In the possession of Julius Böhler, Munich. Sale. Marczell von Nemes of Budapest, Paris, June 17, 1913, No. 60 (516,000 francs, S. de Ricci). In the possession of Julius Böhler, Munich. In the possession of Reinhardt, New York. In a private collection, Chicago.". 
Reverend Jason Lee. Author Name: Alexander Phimister Proctor. . . Reverend Jason Lee is an outdoor bronze sculpture of Jason Lee, located in Salem, Oregon, United States. It was designed by Alexander Phimister Proctor, who died in 1950 when only the work's model was finished. His son Gifford MacGregor Proctor completed the sculpture between 1950 and 1953. The one installed on the grounds of the Oregon State Capitol is a duplicate of a bronze statue unveiled in the United States Capitol in 1952.. Reverend Jason Lee is an outdoor bronze sculpture of Jason Lee, located in Salem, Oregon, United States. It was designed by Alexander Phimister Proctor, who died in 1950 when only the work's model was finished. His son Gifford MacGregor Proctor completed the sculpture between 1950 and 1953. The one installed on the grounds of the Oregon State Capitol is a duplicate of a bronze statue unveiled in the United States Capitol in 1952.. 
Dance. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . The Dance[clarification needed] (La Danse) refers to either of two related paintings made by Henri Matisse between 1909 and 1910. The first, preliminary version is Matisse's study for the second version. The composition or arrangement of dancing figures is reminiscent of Blake's watercolour "Oberon, Titania and Puck with fairies dancing" from 1786.. The Dance[clarification needed] (La Danse) refers to either of two related paintings made by Henri Matisse between 1909 and 1910. The first, preliminary version is Matisse's study for the second version. The composition or arrangement of dancing figures is reminiscent of Blake's watercolour "Oberon, Titania and Puck with fairies dancing" from 1786.. 
Chief Kno-Tah. Author Name: Peter Wolf Toth. . . Chief Kno-Tah is a wooden statue located in Shute Park in Hillsboro in the U.S. state of Oregon. Carved by Peter Wolf Toth, it was the 56th Native American head in his Trail of the Whispering Giants series. The 25-foot (7.6 m) tall, 250,000-pound (110,000 kg) statue was the first of two carved by Toth in Oregon. Completed in 1987, the statue was named in honor of a chief of the local Tualatin Indians.. Chief Kno-Tah is a wooden statue located in Shute Park in Hillsboro in the U.S. state of Oregon. Carved by Peter Wolf Toth, it was the 56th Native American head in his Trail of the Whispering Giants series. The 25-foot (7.6 m) tall, 250,000-pound (110,000 kg) statue was the first of two carved by Toth in Oregon. Completed in 1987, the statue was named in honor of a chief of the local Tualatin Indians.. 
Floating Sculpture No. 3. Author Name: Pan, Marta. . . Floating Sculpture No. 3 is a public art work by artist Marta Pan located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The red fiberglass sculpture is kinetic; it is installed in the pond.. Floating Sculpture No. 3 is a public art work by artist Marta Pan located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The red fiberglass sculpture is kinetic; it is installed in the pond.. 
The Descent from the Cross. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Descent from the Cross is a 1650–52 painting of the Descent from the Cross by Rembrandt, Constantijn van Renesse and Rembrandt's studio. It is now in the National Gallery of Art in Washington.. The Descent from the Cross is a 1650–52 painting of the Descent from the Cross by Rembrandt, Constantijn van Renesse and Rembrandt's studio. It is now in the National Gallery of Art in Washington.. 
The Garden of Eden with the Fall of Man. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Garden of Eden with the Fall of Man or The Earthly Paradise with the Fall of Adam and Eve is a 1617 painting by Peter Paul Rubens (figures) and Jan Brueghel the Elder (flora and fauna). It is housed in the Mauritshuis, Netherlands. The painting depicts the moment just before the consumption of forbidden fruit and the fall of man.. The Garden of Eden with the Fall of Man or The Earthly Paradise with the Fall of Adam and Eve is a 1617 painting by Peter Paul Rubens (figures) and Jan Brueghel the Elder (flora and fauna). It is housed in the Mauritshuis, Netherlands. The painting depicts the moment just before the consumption of forbidden fruit and the fall of man. Adam and Eve are depicted beneath the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, where various fruits grow. On the opposite side the tree of life is depicted, also laden with fruits. The scene is a reference to Genesis 2:8–14. A monkey biting an apple to the left symbolizes sin. The sanguine monkey next to Adam is the hotspur who cannot resist temptation, while the choleric cat near Eve's heels represents cruel cunning. In Christian symbolism, several grapes in the foliage behind Adam and Eve represent Christ's death on the cross, as wine represents his blood.. 
The Bathers. Author Name: Pierre-Auguste Renoir. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Bathers (French: Les Baigneuses) is an oil painting on canvas made between 1918 and 1919 by the French painter Pierre-Auguste Renoir. After being given to the State by his three sons in 1923, it is currently kept at the Musée d'Orsay in Paris.There are two groups of naked women: two models lying in the foreground plus three bathers in the background, on the right. One of the models of this painting is Andrée Hessling, who became the first wife of Renoir's son, Jean. The natural setting displayed in the painting was the large garden of the house owned by the painter in Cagnes-sur-Mer.. The Bathers (French: Les Baigneuses) is an oil painting on canvas made between 1918 and 1919 by the French painter Pierre-Auguste Renoir. After being given to the State by his three sons in 1923, it is currently kept at the Musée d'Orsay in Paris. There are two groups of naked women: two models lying in the foreground plus three bathers in the background, on the right. One of the models of this painting is Andrée Hessling, who became the first wife of Renoir's son, Jean. The natural setting displayed in the painting was the large garden of the house owned by the painter in Cagnes-sur-Mer. In the painting, Renoir removed any reference to the contemporary world and showed "a timeless nature". The theme of the bather is predominant in the final season of Renoir's paintings: the women portrayed by the painter are free and uninhibited. These bathers are "melted in the nature and the forms merge with the trees, flowers and the shares of red water". The painting received criticism because of "the enormousness of the legs and arms, the weakness of flesh, and the pinkish color of the models".. 
George Washington. Author Name: Henry Kirke Brown. . . George Washington is an outdoor sculpture by Henry Kirke Brown (1814–1886), located in Union Square, Manhattan, in the United States. The bronze equestrian statue was dedicated in 1865 and is the oldest sculpture in the New York City Parks collection.. George Washington is an outdoor sculpture by Henry Kirke Brown (1814–1886), located in Union Square, Manhattan, in the United States. The bronze equestrian statue was dedicated in 1865 and is the oldest sculpture in the New York City Parks collection.. 
Deux fillettes, fond jaune et rouge. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . Deux fillettes, fond jaune et rouge (Two Girls in a Yellow and Red Interior) (1947), oil on canvas, 61 x 49.8 cm (24 x 19 5/8 inches) is a painting by Henri Matisse in the collection of the Barnes Foundation, Merion, Pennsylvania. Albert Barnes became one of Matisse's most important patrons. In addition to a commissioned mural in 1932 Dance II, 1932 Barnes acquired many paintings and drawings by Matisse. Pierre Matisse who was Matisse's son living in New York was instrumental in facilitating Barnes in purchasing works from his father. During the early-to-mid-1940s Matisse was in poor health. Eventually by 1950 he stopped painting in favor of his paper cutouts. This painting in the Barnes collection is an example of one of the final group of oil paintings in Matisse's career.. Deux fillettes, fond jaune et rouge (Two Girls in a Yellow and Red Interior) (1947), oil on canvas, 61 x 49.8 cm (24 x 19 5/8 inches) is a painting by Henri Matisse in the collection of the Barnes Foundation, Merion, Pennsylvania. Albert Barnes became one of Matisse's most important patrons. In addition to a commissioned mural in 1932 Dance II, 1932 Barnes acquired many paintings and drawings by Matisse. Pierre Matisse who was Matisse's son living in New York was instrumental in facilitating Barnes in purchasing works from his father. During the early-to-mid-1940s Matisse was in poor health. Eventually by 1950 he stopped painting in favor of his paper cutouts. This painting in the Barnes collection is an example of one of the final group of oil paintings in Matisse's career.. 
Robert Burns. Author Name: Stevenson, William Grant. . . Robert Burns is a public art statue of the Scottish poet Robert Burns by the Scottish artist William Grant Stevenson. The 10 metre (33 ft) bronze figure depicts the popular Scottish poet standing with notebook in hand. The original is in Kilmarnock in Scotland, as the centrepiece of the Burns Monument, Kilmarnock. A copy is located in Burns Commons on the east side of Milwaukee, Wisconsin. This statue on its plinth of pink Nova Scotia granite stands 23 feet (7.0 m) tall. Both copies were cast in Edinburgh.Short video of Burns Monument.. Robert Burns is a public art statue of the Scottish poet Robert Burns by the Scottish artist William Grant Stevenson. The 10 metre (33 ft) bronze figure depicts the popular Scottish poet standing with notebook in hand. The original is in Kilmarnock in Scotland, as the centrepiece of the Burns Monument, Kilmarnock. A copy is located in Burns Commons on the east side of Milwaukee, Wisconsin. This statue on its plinth of pink Nova Scotia granite stands 23 feet (7.0 m) tall. Both copies were cast in Edinburgh. Short video of Burns Monument.. 
James Buchanan Memorial. Author Name: Hans Schuler. . . The James Buchanan Memorial is a bronze and granite memorial in the Southeast corner of Meridian Hill Park Northwest, Washington, D.C. It was designed by architect William Gorden Beecher, and sculpted by Maryland artist Hans Schuler.. The James Buchanan Memorial is a bronze and granite memorial in the Southeast corner of Meridian Hill Park Northwest, Washington, D.C. It was designed by architect William Gorden Beecher, and sculpted by Maryland artist Hans Schuler. Commissioned in 1916, but not approved by the U.S. Congress until 1918, it was completed and unveiled June 26, 1930. The memorial features a statue of Buchanan bookended by male and female classical figures representing law and diplomacy, engraved with text from a member of Buchanan's cabinet, Jeremiah S. Black: The memorial in the nation's capital complemented an earlier monument, constructed in 1907–08 and dedicated in 1911, on the site of Buchanan's birthplace in Mercersburg, Pennsylvania.. 
The Elevation of the Cross. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Elevation of the Cross (also called The Raising of the Cross) is a triptych painting by Flemish artist Peter Paul Rubens, completed in 1610-1611.Peter Paul Rubens painted The Elevation of the Cross after returning to Flanders from Italy. The work shows the clear influence of Italian Renaissance and Baroque artists such as Caravaggio, Tintoretto and Michelangelo. The central panel illustrates a tension between the multitude of finely muscled men attempting to lift the cross and the seemingly unbearable weight of Christ on the cross.. The Elevation of the Cross (also called The Raising of the Cross) is a triptych painting by Flemish artist Peter Paul Rubens, completed in 1610-1611. Peter Paul Rubens painted The Elevation of the Cross after returning to Flanders from Italy. The work shows the clear influence of Italian Renaissance and Baroque artists such as Caravaggio, Tintoretto and Michelangelo. The central panel illustrates a tension between the multitude of finely muscled men attempting to lift the cross and the seemingly unbearable weight of Christ on the cross. Peter Paul Rubens' foreshortening is evident in the contortions of the struggling, strapping men. Christ cuts across the central panel in a diagonal, stylistically akin to Caravaggio's Entombment where both descent and ascent are in play at a key moment. Motion, space and time are illustrated along with the struggle to upright the cross. Rubens uses dynamic color and chiaroscuro boldly, a style that would become more subtle with time. The painting is located at the Cathedral of Our Lady in Antwerp, Belgium, along with other Rubens works. Under Napoleon's rule, the emperor took the painting, along with Peter Paul Rubens' The Descent from the Cross, to Paris. The paintings were returned to the cathedral in 1815.. 
Tampuhan. Author Name: Juan Luna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Tampuhan, meaning "sulking", is an 1895 classic oil on canvas impressionist painting by Filipino painter and hero Juan Luna. It depicts a Filipino man and a Filipino woman having a lovers' quarrel.. Tampuhan, meaning "sulking", is an 1895 classic oil on canvas impressionist painting by Filipino painter and hero Juan Luna. It depicts a Filipino man and a Filipino woman having a lovers' quarrel.. 
I Saw the Figure 5 in Gold. Author Name: Charles Demuth. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Precisionism. . I Saw the Figure 5 in Gold, also known as The Figure 5 in Gold, is a 1928 painting by American artist Charles Demuth. It has been described as influenced by Futurism and Cubism. Painted as an homage to Demuth's friend William Carlos Williams, the painting references Williams' poem The Great Figure, which describes a fire engine speeding through the streets of a city (possibly New York) on a rainy night. The painting's title is a phrase from the poem.. I Saw the Figure 5 in Gold, also known as The Figure 5 in Gold, is a 1928 painting by American artist Charles Demuth. It has been described as influenced by Futurism and Cubism. Painted as an homage to Demuth's friend William Carlos Williams, the painting references Williams' poem The Great Figure, which describes a fire engine speeding through the streets of a city (possibly New York) on a rainy night. The painting's title is a phrase from the poem.. 
Femme aux Bras Croisés. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Femme aux Bras Croisés (Woman with Folded Arms), is a painting by Pablo Picasso done in 1902 during his Blue Period. The subject of the painting is unknown, but she may be an inmate of the Saint-Lazare hospital-prison in Paris.In her book Pablo Picasso, Antonina Vallentin devotes a great deal of time to writing about the haunting qualities of this painting. She describes her views of the subject as an inmate, who recently attempted suicide and now carries the blank but menacing stare of those unfortunates who found themselves at Saint-Lazare during the early 1900s.. Femme aux Bras Croisés (Woman with Folded Arms), is a painting by Pablo Picasso done in 1902 during his Blue Period. The subject of the painting is unknown, but she may be an inmate of the Saint-Lazare hospital-prison in Paris. In her book Pablo Picasso, Antonina Vallentin devotes a great deal of time to writing about the haunting qualities of this painting. She describes her views of the subject as an inmate, who recently attempted suicide and now carries the blank but menacing stare of those unfortunates who found themselves at Saint-Lazare during the early 1900s.. 
On the Contrary. Author Name: Kay Sage. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Surrealism. . On The Contrary is an oil on canvas painting by Kay Sage, painted in 1952. It is housed in the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis, Minnesota.. On The Contrary is an oil on canvas painting by Kay Sage, painted in 1952. It is housed in the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis, Minnesota.. 
Last Conversation Piece. Author Name: Juan Muñoz. . . Last Conversation Piece is a public artwork by Spanish sculptor Juan Muñoz located outside of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in Washington, DC, United States.. Last Conversation Piece is a public artwork by Spanish sculptor Juan Muñoz located outside of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in Washington, DC, United States.. 
Seaport with the Embarkation of the Queen of Sheba. Author Name: Claude Lorrain. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Seaport with the Embarkation of the Queen of Sheba is an oil painting by Claude Lorrain (also known as Claude Gellée), in the National Gallery, London, signed and dated 1648. The large oil on canvas painting was commissioned by Frédéric Maurice de La Tour d'Auvergne, Duc de Bouillon, general of the Papal army, together with Claude's Landscape with the Marriage of Isaac and Rebecca. It depicts the departure of the Queen of Sheba to visit to King Solomon in Jerusalem, described in the tenth chapter of the First Book of Kings. A more usual subject would be their meeting; this is one of many scenes of journeying painted by Claude. The Queen is departing from a city with classical buildings, with the early morning sun lighting the sea, as vessels are loaded.. Seaport with the Embarkation of the Queen of Sheba is an oil painting by Claude Lorrain (also known as Claude Gellée), in the National Gallery, London, signed and dated 1648. The large oil on canvas painting was commissioned by Frédéric Maurice de La Tour d'Auvergne, Duc de Bouillon, general of the Papal army, together with Claude's Landscape with the Marriage of Isaac and Rebecca. It depicts the departure of the Queen of Sheba to visit to King Solomon in Jerusalem, described in the tenth chapter of the First Book of Kings. A more usual subject would be their meeting; this is one of many scenes of journeying painted by Claude. The Queen is departing from a city with classical buildings, with the early morning sun lighting the sea, as vessels are loaded. The composition draws the eye to a group of people on the steps to the right, at the intersection of a line of perspective (the steps) and a strong vertical (the left column of the building's portico). The Queen wears a pink tunic, royal blue cloak, and golden crown, and is about to board a waiting launch to take her to her ship – perhaps the ship partially concealed by the pillars to the left, or the one further out to sea, over the picture's vanishing point. The painting was one of the first works to be acquired by the National Gallery in 1824, being one of five works by Claude bought from the collection of John Julius Angerstein. It has the catalogue number NG14. This and similar works by Claude work inspired Turner to paint Dido Building Carthage and The Decline of the Carthaginian Empire, which Turner left to the nation as part of the Turner Bequest, on condition that they were hung besides Claude's pair of works.. 
The Lost Portrait. Author Name: Allan Ramsay. . . The "lost portrait" of Charles Edward Stuart is a portrait, painted in late autumn 1745 by Scottish artist Allan Ramsay, of Charles Edward Stuart, also known as the Young Pretender or Bonnie Prince Charlie.The painting was discovered by art dealer and art historian Dr Bendor Grosvenor at Gosford House, the home of the Earl of Wemyss near Edinburgh, and was authenticated by the Ramsay authority Dr Duncan Thomson, former Director of the Scottish National Portrait Gallery.. The "lost portrait" of Charles Edward Stuart is a portrait, painted in late autumn 1745 by Scottish artist Allan Ramsay, of Charles Edward Stuart, also known as the Young Pretender or Bonnie Prince Charlie. The painting was discovered by art dealer and art historian Dr Bendor Grosvenor at Gosford House, the home of the Earl of Wemyss near Edinburgh, and was authenticated by the Ramsay authority Dr Duncan Thomson, former Director of the Scottish National Portrait Gallery.. 
Wall Street. Author Name: Paul Strand. . . Wall Street is a platinum palladium print photograph by the American photographer Paul Strand taken in 1915. There are currently only two vintage prints of this photograph with one at the Whitney Museum of American Art (printed posthumously) and the other, along with negatives, at the Philadelphia Museum of Art. This photograph was included in Paul Strand, circa 1916, an exhibition of photographs that exemplify his push toward modernism.. Wall Street is a platinum palladium print photograph by the American photographer Paul Strand taken in 1915. There are currently only two vintage prints of this photograph with one at the Whitney Museum of American Art (printed posthumously) and the other, along with negatives, at the Philadelphia Museum of Art. This photograph was included in Paul Strand, circa 1916, an exhibition of photographs that exemplify his push toward modernism. It depicts a scene of everyday life in Manhattan's Financial District. Workers are seen walking past the J.P. Morgan building in New York City on the famous Wall Street, of which the photograph takes its name. The photograph is famous for its reliance on the sharpness and contrast of the shapes and angles, created by the building and the workers, that lead to its abstraction. This photograph is considered to be one of Strand's most famous works and an example of his change from pictorialism to straight photography. Strand moved from the posed to portraying the purity of the subjects. It is one of several images that stand as marks of the turn to modernism in photography.. 
The Deposition. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Deposition is a 1602 painting of the Deposition of Christ by Peter Paul Rubens, previously attributed to Van Dyck. It is not to be confused with Rubens' much larger and more famous Descent from the Cross in Antwerp Cathedral. It is now in the Galleria Borghese.. The Deposition is a 1602 painting of the Deposition of Christ by Peter Paul Rubens, previously attributed to Van Dyck. It is not to be confused with Rubens' much larger and more famous Descent from the Cross in Antwerp Cathedral. It is now in the Galleria Borghese.. 
Flora, Nude. Author Name: Aristide Maillol. . . Flora, Nude (French: La Flore, nue) is an outdoor 1910 bronze sculpture by French artist Aristide Maillol, installed at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston's Lillie and Hugh Roy Cullen Sculpture Garden, in the U.S. state of Texas.The work was cast during 1960–1965 and gifted to the museum by Isaac Arnold, Jr. in honor of his wife, Antonette Tilly Arnold.. Flora, Nude (French: La Flore, nue) is an outdoor 1910 bronze sculpture by French artist Aristide Maillol, installed at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston's Lillie and Hugh Roy Cullen Sculpture Garden, in the U.S. state of Texas. The work was cast during 1960–1965 and gifted to the museum by Isaac Arnold, Jr. in honor of his wife, Antonette Tilly Arnold.. 
Eve. Author Name: Davidson, Robert William. . . Eve is an outdoor sculpture of the biblical Eve created by Robert William Davidson in 1931. It is currently located in the HITS Building at 410 West 10th Street on the campus of Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis (IUPUI). The overall dimensions of this bronze sculpture are 5’ tall, 2’ long, and 1’ wide.. Eve is an outdoor sculpture of the biblical Eve created by Robert William Davidson in 1931. It is currently located in the HITS Building at 410 West 10th Street on the campus of Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis (IUPUI). The overall dimensions of this bronze sculpture are 5’ tall, 2’ long, and 1’ wide.. 
Judith and Holofernes. Author Name: Andrea Mantegna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Judith and Holofernes is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Andrea Mantegna, painted about 1495, depicting the common subject in art of Judith beheading Holofernes.. Judith and Holofernes is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Andrea Mantegna, painted about 1495, depicting the common subject in art of Judith beheading Holofernes.. 
The Brera Madonna. Author Name: Piero della Francesca. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Brera Madonna (also known as the Pala di Brera, the Montefeltro Altarpiece or Brera Altarpiece) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Piero della Francesca, executed in 1472-1474. It is housed in the Pinacoteca di Brera of Milan, where it was deposited by Napoleon.The work, of a type known as a sacra conversazione, was commissioned by Federico III da Montefeltro, Duke of Urbino, to celebrate the birth of Federico's son, Guidobaldo. According to other sources, it would celebrate his conquest of several castles in the Maremma.. The Brera Madonna (also known as the Pala di Brera, the Montefeltro Altarpiece or Brera Altarpiece) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Piero della Francesca, executed in 1472-1474. It is housed in the Pinacoteca di Brera of Milan, where it was deposited by Napoleon. The work, of a type known as a sacra conversazione, was commissioned by Federico III da Montefeltro, Duke of Urbino, to celebrate the birth of Federico's son, Guidobaldo. According to other sources, it would celebrate his conquest of several castles in the Maremma.. 
The Needlewoman. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Needlewoman (Spanish: La costurera) is an oil-on-canvas painting by Diego Velázquez, painted between 1635 and 1643. It is housed in the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C.. The Needlewoman (Spanish: La costurera) is an oil-on-canvas painting by Diego Velázquez, painted between 1635 and 1643. It is housed in the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C.. 
Pont Boieldieu in Rouen, Rainy Weather. Author Name: Camille Pissarro. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Pont Boieldieu in Rouen, Rainy Weather is an 1896 painting by Camille Pissarro in the collection of the Art Gallery of Ontario. It is one of a series of painting Pissarro did of Pont Boieldieu and the industrial quays surrounding it. Pissarro spent time in Rouen in 1896 seeking to paint the industrial modernity of the area. He had earlier made a trip in 1883, and did one series of images of the city then. On his 1896 trip he stayed at the Hôtel de Paris in Rouen, from January to April 1896, and it is in this period that this painting was made. His room overlooked the Seine, and it is from this vantage point that it is painted.. Pont Boieldieu in Rouen, Rainy Weather is an 1896 painting by Camille Pissarro in the collection of the Art Gallery of Ontario. It is one of a series of painting Pissarro did of Pont Boieldieu and the industrial quays surrounding it. Pissarro spent time in Rouen in 1896 seeking to paint the industrial modernity of the area. He had earlier made a trip in 1883, and did one series of images of the city then. On his 1896 trip he stayed at the Hôtel de Paris in Rouen, from January to April 1896, and it is in this period that this painting was made. His room overlooked the Seine, and it is from this vantage point that it is painted. The subject is the Pont Boieldieu, an iron bridge completed a few years before in 1885. Across the river is the Gare d'Orléans train station and the Place Carnot square. The painting shows Pissarro's interest in moving beyond traditional landscape paintings of verdant rural scenes. His Rouen series instead focuses on the bustle of the modern city. The Rouen pictures would be followed by a series of paintings of urban Paris. Style-wise, Pont Boieldieu in Rouen, Rainy Weather is a return to Impressionism after a decade of experimenting with Post-Impressionism and Pointalism. Pissarro deliberately sought out a view of the busy industrial section of the town, and produced a number of paintings of the view from the hotel in different light conditions and different weather. He did another picture of the Pont Boieldieu from the same angle, but in a foggy sunset that is today at the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Rouen. In a letter written that year, Pissarro himself describes the painting: "The theme is the bridge near the Placede la Bourse with the effects of rain, crowds of people coming and going, smoke from the boats, quays with cranes, workers in the foreground, and all this in grey colors glistening in the rain." He further wrote, "what particularly interests me is the motif off the iron bridge in wet weather with all the vehicles, pedestrians, workers on the embankment, boats, smoke, haze in the distance; it's so spirited, so alive. The painting was donated to the Art Gallery of Ontario by Reuben Wells Leonard upon his death in 1937. It is one of six Pissarros on public display in Canada, with two others at the AGO, and the others being at the National Gallery of Canada, Art Gallery of Hamilton and the Art Gallery of Greater Victoria.. 
L'Arlésienne. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . L'Arlésienne, L'Arlésienne: Madame Ginoux, or Portrait of Madame Ginoux is the title given to a group of six similar paintings by Vincent van Gogh, painted in Arles, November 1888 (or later), and in  Saint-Rémy, February 1890. L'Arlésienne is pronounced 'lar lay zyen'; it means literally "the woman from Arles".. L'Arlésienne, L'Arlésienne: Madame Ginoux, or Portrait of Madame Ginoux is the title given to a group of six similar paintings by Vincent van Gogh, painted in Arles, November 1888 (or later), and in Saint-Rémy, February 1890. L'Arlésienne is pronounced 'lar lay zyen'; it means literally "the woman from Arles". The subject, Marie Jullian (or Julien), was born in Arles June 8, 1848 and died there August 2, 1911. She married Joseph-Michel Ginoux in 1866 and together they ran the Café de la Gare, 30 Place Lamartine, where Van Gogh lodged from May to mid-September 1888. He had the Yellow House in Arles furnished to settle there. Evidently until this time, Van Gogh's relations to M. and Mme. Ginoux had remained more or less commercial (the café is the subject of The Night Café), but Gauguin's arrival in Arles altered the situation. His courtship charmed the lady, then about 40 years of age, and in the first few days of November 1888 (November 1, or more probably November 2) Madame Ginoux agreed to have a portrait session for Paul Gauguin, and his friend Van Gogh. Within an hour, Gauguin produced a charcoal drawing while Vincent produced a full-scale painting, "knocked off in one hour".. 
Blue Poles. Author Name: Jackson Pollock. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . Number 11, 1952, also known as Blue Poles, is an abstract expressionist painting and one of the most famous works by American artist Jackson Pollock. It was purchased amid controversy by the National Gallery of Australia in 1973 and today remains one of the gallery's major paintings.. Number 11, 1952, also known as Blue Poles, is an abstract expressionist painting and one of the most famous works by American artist Jackson Pollock. It was purchased amid controversy by the National Gallery of Australia in 1973 and today remains one of the gallery's major paintings.. 
Jumbo the Elephant. Author Name: Bronnum, Winston. . . Jumbo the Elephant is a concrete and reinforced steel statue by Canadian artist Winston Bronnum. The statue was commissioned by the town of St. Thomas, Ontario to mark the 100th anniversary of the death of Jumbo, a circus elephant that was killed in the town after being struck by a train. The town funded the $70,000 sculpture in part with the sale of Indiana Jones-style hats and commemorative coins. The statue was constructed at Bronnum's Animaland Park in Sussex, New Brunswick and transported 1,722 kilometres to St. Thomas. For ease of transport the upper legs and body were poured separately from the base and lower legs. The statue weights 38 tonnes and the base weighs 100 tonnes.. Jumbo the Elephant is a concrete and reinforced steel statue by Canadian artist Winston Bronnum. The statue was commissioned by the town of St. Thomas, Ontario to mark the 100th anniversary of the death of Jumbo, a circus elephant that was killed in the town after being struck by a train. The town funded the $70,000 sculpture in part with the sale of Indiana Jones-style hats and commemorative coins. The statue was constructed at Bronnum's Animaland Park in Sussex, New Brunswick and transported 1,722 kilometres to St. Thomas. For ease of transport the upper legs and body were poured separately from the base and lower legs. The statue weights 38 tonnes and the base weighs 100 tonnes.. 
Portrait of Hieronymus Holzschuher. Author Name: Albrecht Dürer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Hieronymus Holzschuher is a painting by German Renaissance master Albrecht Dürer, dated from 1526, now housed in the Gemäldegalerie of Berlin, Germany. The signature is in the upper left corner, and reads HIERONIMOS HOLTZSHVER ANNO DO[MI]NI 1526 ETATIS SVE 57.The work was executed in Nuremberg, the same year in which the German artist portrayed Johann Kleberger and Jakob Muffel. Holzschuher was a local patrician who was senator and septemvir in its councils.. The Portrait of Hieronymus Holzschuher is a painting by German Renaissance master Albrecht Dürer, dated from 1526, now housed in the Gemäldegalerie of Berlin, Germany. The signature is in the upper left corner, and reads HIERONIMOS HOLTZSHVER ANNO DO[MI]NI 1526 ETATIS SVE 57. The work was executed in Nuremberg, the same year in which the German artist portrayed Johann Kleberger and Jakob Muffel. Holzschuher was a local patrician who was senator and septemvir in its councils. The panel has the same dimensions as the portrait of Muffel, and thus it has been speculated that they could have been commissioned for some official celebration and exhibited in the city's town hall.. 
Portrait of Francesco delle Opere. Author Name: Pietro Perugino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Francesco delle Opere is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Perugino, dating to 1494 and housed in the Uffizi Gallery, Florence.. The Portrait of Francesco delle Opere is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Perugino, dating to 1494 and housed in the Uffizi Gallery, Florence.. 
Woman with a Fan. Author Name: Jean Metzinger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . La Femme à l'Éventail, or Woman with a Fan, is a painting by the French artist Jean Metzinger. The work was exhibited in 1914 at Moderni Umeni, S.V.U. Mánes, Prague. A 1914 photograph taken at the exhibition in Prague was published in the magazine Zlatá Praha showing Woman with a Fan hanging next to another work by Metzinger known as En Canot (Im Boot, The Boat), 1913. Donated by Mr. and Mrs. Sigmund Kunstadter in 1959, Woman with a Fan forms part of the permanent collection in Gallery 391B (Medieval to Modern European Painting and Sculpture) at the Art Institute of Chicago.. La Femme à l'Éventail, or Woman with a Fan, is a painting by the French artist Jean Metzinger. The work was exhibited in 1914 at Moderni Umeni, S.V.U. Mánes, Prague. A 1914 photograph taken at the exhibition in Prague was published in the magazine Zlatá Praha showing Woman with a Fan hanging next to another work by Metzinger known as En Canot (Im Boot, The Boat), 1913. Donated by Mr. and Mrs. Sigmund Kunstadter in 1959, Woman with a Fan forms part of the permanent collection in Gallery 391B (Medieval to Modern European Painting and Sculpture) at the Art Institute of Chicago.. 
The Bellelli Family. Author Name: Edgar Degas. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Bellelli Family, also known as Family Portrait, is an oil painting on canvas by Edgar Degas (1834–1917), painted ca. 1858–1867, and housed in the Musée d'Orsay. A masterwork of Degas' youth, the painting is a portrait of his aunt, her husband, and their two young daughters.. The Bellelli Family, also known as Family Portrait, is an oil painting on canvas by Edgar Degas (1834–1917), painted ca. 1858–1867, and housed in the Musée d'Orsay. A masterwork of Degas' youth, the painting is a portrait of his aunt, her husband, and their two young daughters. While finishing his artistic training in Italy, Degas drew and painted his aunt Laura, her husband the baron Gennaro Bellelli (1812–1864), and their daughters Giulia and Giovanna. Although it is not known for certain when or where Degas executed the painting, it is believed that he utilized studies done in Italy to complete the work after his return to Paris. Laura, his father's sister, is depicted in a dress which symbolizes mourning for her father, who had recently died and appears in the framed portrait behind her. The baron was an Italian patriot exiled from Naples, living in Florence. Laura Bellelli's countenance is dignified and austere, her gesture connected with those of her daughters. Her husband, by contrast, appears to be separated from his family. His association with business and the outside world is implied by his position at his desk. Giulia holds a livelier pose than that of her sister Giovanna, whose restraint appears to underscore the familial tensions.. 
Love Song. Author Name: Giorgio de Chirico. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Metaphysical_art. . The Song of Love (also known as Le chant d'amour or Love Song; 1914) is a painting by the Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio de Chirico. It is one of the most famous works by de Chirico and an early example of the surrealist style, though it was painted ten years before the movement was "founded" by André Breton in 1924.. The Song of Love (also known as Le chant d'amour or Love Song; 1914) is a painting by the Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio de Chirico. It is one of the most famous works by de Chirico and an early example of the surrealist style, though it was painted ten years before the movement was "founded" by André Breton in 1924. It depicts an outdoor architectural setting similar to other works by de Chirico at this time. This time however, the main focus is a small wall on which is mounted a Greek sculpted head and a surgeon's glove. Below it is a green ball. On the horizon is the outline of a locomotive, an image that recurs several times during this period of de Chirico's career.. 
Madonna of St. Jerome. Author Name: Antonio da Correggio. . Author Movement: Mannerism. . The Madonna of St. Jerome is an oil on canvas painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Correggio, dating from around 1528, and housed in the Galleria Nazionale of Parma, Italy.. The Madonna of St. Jerome is an oil on canvas painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Correggio, dating from around 1528, and housed in the Galleria Nazionale of Parma, Italy.. 
Spindle. Author Name: Shuler, Dan. . . Spindle was a sculpture created in 1989 by artist Dustin Shuler (1948–2010). It consisted of a 50 foot spike with eight cars impaled on it.. Spindle was a sculpture created in 1989 by artist Dustin Shuler (1948–2010). It consisted of a 50 foot spike with eight cars impaled on it.. 
The Stone Breakers. Author Name: Gustave Courbet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Stone Breakers (French: Les Casseurs de pierres) was an 1849–50 painting by the French painter Gustave Courbet. It was a work of social realism, depicting two peasants, a young man and an old man, breaking rocks.The painting was first exhibited at the Paris Salon of 1850. It was destroyed during World War II, along with 154 other pictures, when a transport vehicle moving the pictures to the castle of Königstein, near Dresden, was bombed by Allied forces in February 1945.. The Stone Breakers (French: Les Casseurs de pierres) was an 1849–50 painting by the French painter Gustave Courbet. It was a work of social realism, depicting two peasants, a young man and an old man, breaking rocks. The painting was first exhibited at the Paris Salon of 1850. It was destroyed during World War II, along with 154 other pictures, when a transport vehicle moving the pictures to the castle of Königstein, near Dresden, was bombed by Allied forces in February 1945.. 
After B.K.S. Iyengar. Author Name: Engman, Robert. . . After B.K.S. Iyengar is an abstract bronze sculpture, by Robert Engman.It is located at Morris Arboretum, 9414 Meadowbrook Avenue, English Park Step Garden, Philadelphia. It was dedicated in September 1988.Another casting is at the Annmarie Sculpture Garden, Solomons, Maryland, on loan from the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.. After B.K.S. Iyengar is an abstract bronze sculpture, by Robert Engman. It is located at Morris Arboretum, 9414 Meadowbrook Avenue, English Park Step Garden, Philadelphia. It was dedicated in September 1988. Another casting is at the Annmarie Sculpture Garden, Solomons, Maryland, on loan from the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.. 
La Mariée. Author Name: Marc Chagall. . Author Movement: *. . La Mariée (French for "The Bride") is a painting in oil on canvas, 68×53 cm, created in 1950 by Russian-French artist Marc Chagall. It is held in a private collection in Japan.. La Mariée (French for "The Bride") is a painting in oil on canvas, 68×53 cm, created in 1950 by Russian-French artist Marc Chagall. It is held in a private collection in Japan.. 
Piano Lesson. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . The Piano Lesson depicts the living room of Henri Matisse's home in Issy-les-Moulineaux, with his elder son, Pierre, at the piano, the artist's sculpture Decorative Figure (1908), at bottom left, and, at upper right, his painting Woman on a High Stool. Matisse began with a naturalistic drawing, but he eliminated detail as he worked, scraping down areas and rebuilding them broad fields of color. The painting evokes a specific moment in time—light suddenly turned on in a darkening interior—by the triangle of shadow on the boy's face and the rhyming green triangle of light falling on the garden. The artist's incising on the window frame and stippling on the left side produce a pitted quality that suggests the eroding effects of light or time, a theme reiterated by the presence of the metronom. The Piano Lesson depicts the living room of Henri Matisse's home in Issy-les-Moulineaux, with his elder son, Pierre, at the piano, the artist's sculpture Decorative Figure (1908), at bottom left, and, at upper right, his painting Woman on a High Stool. Matisse began with a naturalistic drawing, but he eliminated detail as he worked, scraping down areas and rebuilding them broad fields of color. The painting evokes a specific moment in time—light suddenly turned on in a darkening interior—by the triangle of shadow on the boy's face and the rhyming green triangle of light falling on the garden. The artist's incising on the window frame and stippling on the left side produce a pitted quality that suggests the eroding effects of light or time, a theme reiterated by the presence of the metronome and burning candle on the piano. This painting, The Moroccans (1915) and Bathers by a River (1909–10, May–November 1913, and early spring 1916–October (?) 1917) were all painted at the time of the Battle of Verdun.. 
Seventh Regiment Memorial. Author Name: John Quincy Adams Ward. . . Seventh Regiment Memorial is an outdoor bronze sculpture by John Quincy Adams Ward, located in Central Park in Manhattan, New York. It was created in 1869 and installed in Central Park in June 1874.. Seventh Regiment Memorial is an outdoor bronze sculpture by John Quincy Adams Ward, located in Central Park in Manhattan, New York. It was created in 1869 and installed in Central Park in June 1874.. 
Portrait of Charles V with a Dog. Author Name: Titian. . . The Portrait of Charles V with a Dog is a portrait of Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor with a hunting dog, painted by Titian in 1533. It passed from Charles to the Spanish royal collection, from which it passed to its present owner, the Prado.. The Portrait of Charles V with a Dog is a portrait of Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor with a hunting dog, painted by Titian in 1533. It passed from Charles to the Spanish royal collection, from which it passed to its present owner, the Prado. It is a copy or reinterpretation of a portrait of Charles painted in 1532 by Jakob Seisenegger. That portrait was natural but had not pleased its subject and so during his stay in Bologna in 1533 (when Titian also happened to be there) Charles paid Titian 500 ducats to paint a new version of it. This new version is similar to its predecessor but completely transforms its composition, stylising Charles' body by increasing the size of the fur wrap, decreasing the size of the doublet, raising the position of the eyes and lowering the horizon to make Charles fill the space. He is also shown approaching the viewer and the space around him has been emptied and simplified, with warmer colours than in the original. It later inspired Goya's 1799 Charles IV in his Hunting Clothes.. 
The Awakening Conscience. Author Name: William Holman Hunt. . . The Awakening Conscience (1853) is an oil-on-canvas painting by the English artist William Holman Hunt, one of the founders of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, which depicts a young woman rising from her position in the lap of a man and gazing transfixed out of the window of a room.. The Awakening Conscience (1853) is an oil-on-canvas painting by the English artist William Holman Hunt, one of the founders of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, which depicts a young woman rising from her position in the lap of a man and gazing transfixed out of the window of a room.. 
The Virgin Annunciate. Author Name: Antonello da Messina. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Virgin Annunciate is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Antonello da Messina, housed in the Palazzo Abatellis, Palermo, southern Italy. Probably painted in Sicily in 1476, it shows Mary interrupted at her reading by the Angel of the Annunciation."The painting was bequeathed to the Museo Nazionale (later, the Palazzo Abatellis) in 1906 by the Cavaliere Di Giovanni, who had purchased it from the Colluzio family in Palermo...". The Virgin Annunciate is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Antonello da Messina, housed in the Palazzo Abatellis, Palermo, southern Italy. Probably painted in Sicily in 1476, it shows Mary interrupted at her reading by the Angel of the Annunciation. "The painting was bequeathed to the Museo Nazionale (later, the Palazzo Abatellis) in 1906 by the Cavaliere Di Giovanni, who had purchased it from the Colluzio family in Palermo...". 
The Intervention of the Sabine Women. Author Name: Jacques-Louis David. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . The Intervention of the Sabine Women is a 1799 painting by the French painter Jacques-Louis David, showing a legendary episode following the abduction of the Sabine women by the founding generation of Rome.David began work on it in 1796, after his estranged wife visited him in jail. He conceived the idea of telling the story, to honour his wife, with the theme being love prevailing over conflict. The painting was also seen as a plea for the people to reunite after the bloodshed of the revolution. Its realization took him nearly four years.. The Intervention of the Sabine Women is a 1799 painting by the French painter Jacques-Louis David, showing a legendary episode following the abduction of the Sabine women by the founding generation of Rome. David began planning the work while he was imprisoned in the Luxembourg Palace in 1795. France was at war with other European nations after a period of civil conflict culminating in the Reign of Terror and the Thermidorian Reaction, during which David had been imprisoned as a supporter of Robespierre. David hesitated between representing either this subject or that of Homer reciting his verses to the Greeks. He finally chose to make a canvas representing the Sabine women interposing themselves to separate the Romans and Sabines, as a 'sequel' to Poussin's The Rape of the Sabine Women. David began work on it in 1796, after his estranged wife visited him in jail. He conceived the idea of telling the story, to honour his wife, with the theme being love prevailing over conflict. The painting was also seen as a plea for the people to reunite after the bloodshed of the revolution. Its realization took him nearly four years. The painting depicts Romulus's wife Hersilia – the daughter of Titus Tatius, leader of the Sabines – rushing between her husband and her father and placing her babies between them. A vigorous Romulus prepares to strike a half-retreating Tatius with his spear, but hesitates. The rocky outcrop in the background is the Tarpeian Rock, a reference to civil conflict, since the Roman punishment for treason was to be thrown from the rock. According to legend, when Tatius attacked Rome, he almost succeeded in capturing the city because of the treason of the Vestal Virgin Tarpeia, daughter of Spurius Tarpeius, governor of the citadel on the Capitoline Hill. She opened the city gates for the Sabines in return for 'what they bore on their arms.' She believed that she would receive their golden bracelets. Instead, the Sabines crushed her to death with their shields, and she was thrown from the rock which since bore her name.[original research?] In 1799 David exhibited the The Intervention of the Sabine Women at the Louvre, where it attracted a large number of paying visitors until 1805. After the expulsion of artists including David from the Louvre, the picture could be found in the ancient church of Cluny, which he used as a workshop. In 1819 he sold the Sabines and his Léonidas at Thermopylae to the Royal Museums for 10,000 francs. Starting in 1977, France issued a series of definitive stamps featuring the head of Hersilia based on David's painting.. 
Disputation of the Sacrament. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Disputation of the Sacrament (Italian: La disputa del sacramento), or Disputa, is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael. It was painted between 1509 and 1510 as only the first part of Raphael's commission to decorate with frescoes the rooms that are now known as the Stanze di Raffaello, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. At the time, this room was known as the Stanza della Segnatura, and was the private papal library where the supreme papal tribunal met.. The Disputation of the Sacrament (Italian: La disputa del sacramento), or Disputa, is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael. It was painted between 1509 and 1510 as only the first part of Raphael's commission to decorate with frescoes the rooms that are now known as the Stanze di Raffaello, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. At the time, this room was known as the Stanza della Segnatura, and was the private papal library where the supreme papal tribunal met.. 
Large Standing Woman I. Author Name: Alberto Giacometti. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Large Standing Woman I (French: Grande femme debout I) is an outdoor 1960 bronze sculpture by Alberto Giacometti, installed at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston's Lillie and Hugh Roy Cullen Sculpture Garden, in the U.S. state of Texas.. Large Standing Woman I (French: Grande femme debout I) is an outdoor 1960 bronze sculpture by Alberto Giacometti, installed at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston's Lillie and Hugh Roy Cullen Sculpture Garden, in the U.S. state of Texas.. 
Pietà for Vittoria Colonna. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Pietà for Vittoria Colonna is a black chalk drawing on cardboard (28.9×18.9 cm) by Michelangelo Buonarroti, dated to about 1538–44 and kept at the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston.. The Pietà for Vittoria Colonna is a black chalk drawing on cardboard (28.9×18.9 cm) by Michelangelo Buonarroti, dated to about 1538–44 and kept at the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston.. 
Andrew W. Mellon Memorial Fountain. Author Name: Sidney Waugh. . . The Andrew W. Mellon Memorial Fountain is a bronze fountain sculpture by Sidney Waugh. It is located in Washington D.C., United States, just north of the National Gallery of Art, at Pennsylvania Avenue, Constitution Avenue, and 6th Street NW. The fountain is maintained by the Department of the Interior and was dedicated on May 9, 1952, by Harry S. Truman.. The Andrew W. Mellon Memorial Fountain is a bronze fountain sculpture by Sidney Waugh. It is located in Washington D.C., United States, just north of the National Gallery of Art, at Pennsylvania Avenue, Constitution Avenue, and 6th Street NW. The fountain is maintained by the Department of the Interior and was dedicated on May 9, 1952, by Harry S. Truman.. 
Flora. Author Name: Titian. . . Flora is an oil painting by Italian late Renaissance painter Titian, dated to around 1515 and now held at the Uffizi Gallery in Florence.. Flora is an oil painting by Italian late Renaissance painter Titian, dated to around 1515 and now held at the Uffizi Gallery in Florence.. 
Venus and Music. Author Name: Titian. . . Venus and Music is a 1547 painting by Titian. The painting was acquired for the Spanish royal collection in the seventeenth century and is now in the Museo del Prado in Madrid.. Venus and Music is a 1547 painting by Titian. The painting was acquired for the Spanish royal collection in the seventeenth century and is now in the Museo del Prado in Madrid.. 
L'Homme qui marche I. Author Name: Alberto Giacometti. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . L’Homme qui marche I (The Walking Man I or The Striding Man I, lit. The Man who Walks I) is the name of any one of the cast bronze sculptures that comprise six numbered editions plus four artist proofs created by Swiss sculptor Alberto Giacometti in 1961. On 3 February 2010, the second edition of the cast of the sculpture became one of the most expensive works of art ever sold at auction, and the most expensive sculpture, until May 2015, when another Giacometti work, L'Homme au doigt, supplanted it.. L’Homme qui marche I (The Walking Man I or The Striding Man I, lit. The Man who Walks I) is the name of any one of the cast bronze sculptures that comprise six numbered editions plus four artist proofs created by Swiss sculptor Alberto Giacometti in 1961. On 3 February 2010, the second edition of the cast of the sculpture became one of the most expensive works of art ever sold at auction, and the most expensive sculpture, until May 2015, when another Giacometti work, L'Homme au doigt, supplanted it.. 
The Architect's Dream. Author Name: Thomas Cole. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Hudson_River_School. . The Architect's Dream is a 1840 oil painting created by Thomas Cole for New York architect Ithiel Town. Cole incorporated pieces of architecture from Egyptian, Greek, Roman, and Gothic styles in various different parts of the painting, having dabbled in architecture previously. Cole finished the painting in only five weeks and showed it in the National Academy of Design annual exhibition that year. However, the painting was not well received by Ithiel, who refused to accept the painting because he claimed that it was "exclusively architectural".. The Architect's Dream is a 1840 oil painting created by Thomas Cole for New York architect Ithiel Town. Cole incorporated pieces of architecture from Egyptian, Greek, Roman, and Gothic styles in various different parts of the painting, having dabbled in architecture previously. Cole finished the painting in only five weeks and showed it in the National Academy of Design annual exhibition that year. However, the painting was not well received by Ithiel, who refused to accept the painting because he claimed that it was "exclusively architectural". In a letter written in the late 1830s, Cole stated that: The painting was acquired by the Toledo Museum of Art in 1949.. 
Annunciation. Author Name: Fra' Filippo Lippi, O.Carm.. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Annunciation is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Filippo Lippi, finished around 1443–1450. It is housed in the Alte Pinakothek, Munich, Germany.It depicts the Virgin humbly accepting her role as mother of Jesus, with a hand on her breast, while the dove, symbol of the Holy Spirit, is given to her. The angel is kneeling next to her, also with a hand on his breast a greeting sign. The scene is framed into a portico opening to a close garden.. The Annunciation is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Filippo Lippi, finished around 1443–1450. It is housed in the Alte Pinakothek, Munich, Germany. It depicts the Virgin humbly accepting her role as mother of Jesus, with a hand on her breast, while the dove, symbol of the Holy Spirit, is given to her. The angel is kneeling next to her, also with a hand on his breast a greeting sign. The scene is framed into a portico opening to a close garden.. 
Women and Birds. Author Name: Joan Miró. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . Women and Birds (Spanish: Femmes et Oiseaux) is a painting by the Catalan artist Joan Miró. In February 2014 it was expected to be sold at auction for between $6.5m and $11.5m, but the auction was cancelled.. Women and Birds (Spanish: Femmes et Oiseaux) is a painting by the Catalan artist Joan Miró. In February 2014 it was expected to be sold at auction for between $6.5m and $11.5m, but the auction was cancelled.. 
The Hunters in the Snow. Author Name: Pieter Bruegel the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_and_Flemish_Renaissance_painting. . The Hunters in the Snow (Dutch: Jagers in de Sneeuw), also known as The Return of the Hunters, is a 1565 oil-on-wood painting by Flemish artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder. The Northern Renaissance work is one of a series of six, five of which still survive, that depict different times of the year. The painting is in the collection of the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna, Austria.. The Hunters in the Snow (Dutch: Jagers in de Sneeuw), also known as The Return of the Hunters, is a 1565 oil-on-wood painting by Flemish artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder. The Northern Renaissance work is one of a series of six, five of which still survive, that depict different times of the year. The painting is in the collection of the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna, Austria.. 
Bust of Cardinal Scipione Borghese. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Two Busts of Cardinal Scipione Borghese are marble portrait sculptures executed by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini in 1632. Cardinal Scipione Borghese was the nephew of Pope Paul V, and had commissioned other works from Bernini in the 1620s. Both versions of this portrait are in the Galleria Borghese, Rome.. Two Busts of Cardinal Scipione Borghese are marble portrait sculptures executed by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini in 1632. Cardinal Scipione Borghese was the nephew of Pope Paul V, and had commissioned other works from Bernini in the 1620s. Both versions of this portrait are in the Galleria Borghese, Rome.. 
Interchange. Author Name: Willem de Kooning. . . Interchange is a painting by abstract expressionist painter Willem de Kooning. It measures 200.7 by 175.3 centimetres (79.0 by 69.0 in) and was completed in 1955.It has been on loan at the Art Institute of Chicago.. Interchange is a painting by abstract expressionist painter Willem de Kooning. It measures 200.7 by 175.3 centimetres (79.0 by 69.0 in) and was completed in 1955. It has been on loan at the Art Institute of Chicago.. 
Madonna del prato. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Madonna with the Christ Child and Saint John the Baptist is a 1506 painting by Raphael, now held in the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna. It is also known as Madonna del prato (Madonna of the Meadow) or Madonna del Belvedere (after its long residence in the imperial collection in the Vienna Belvedere).. The Madonna with the Christ Child and Saint John the Baptist is a 1506 painting by Raphael, now held in the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna. It is also known as Madonna del prato (Madonna of the Meadow) or Madonna del Belvedere (after its long residence in the imperial collection in the Vienna Belvedere). The three figures in a calm green meadow are linked by looks and touching hands. The Virgin Mary is shown wearing a gold-bordered blue mantle set against a red dress and with her right leg lying along a diagonal. The blue symbolizes the church and the red Christ's death, with the Madonna the uniting of Mother Church with Christ's sacrifice. With her eyes fixed on Christ, her head is turned to the left and slightly inclined, and in her hands she holds up Christ, as he leans forward unsteadily to touch the miniature cross held by John. The poppy refers to Christ's passion, death and resurrection.. 
Untitled. Author Name: Mark Rothko. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . Untitled (Black on Grey) is a painting of a black rectangle and a grey rectangle. There is a buildup of thin, translucent layers of differently shaded blacks, which are luminous and warm, and not at all forbidding. The overall effect is strangely ambiguous, neither space nor substance, and Mark Rothko himself described them as touching upon the 'historical sublime'.. Untitled (Black on Grey) is a painting of a black rectangle and a grey rectangle. There is a buildup of thin, translucent layers of differently shaded blacks, which are luminous and warm, and not at all forbidding. The overall effect is strangely ambiguous, neither space nor substance, and Mark Rothko himself described them as touching upon the 'historical sublime'. Rothko suffered an aortic aneurysm in mid-1968 and during his recuperation he was able only to work on stretched paper. The edges were secured using a gummed tape that left a white margin of bare paper at the edge when it was removed. This led to the first of the 'black and grey' paintings that immediately introduced new formal elements: When asked about the 'grey and black' paintings, he said, quite simply, that they were about death. They are desolate, empty images, but they also afford a richly ambiguous visual experience. Their landscape-like qualities, with the black at the top — an Arctic wasteland under a vast and empty sky — is at the same time more deathlike.. 
Cleopatra's Wedge. Author Name: Beverly Pepper. . . Cleopatra's Wedge is an 18-foot-tall (5.5 m) carbon steel sculpture currently on display at the Burns Commons in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. It is part of a growing roster of public art found within the city.. Cleopatra's Wedge is an 18-foot-tall (5.5 m) carbon steel sculpture currently on display at the Burns Commons in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. It is part of a growing roster of public art found within the city.. 
Portrait of Angel Fernández de Soto. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Portrait of Angel Fernández de Soto (also known as The Absinthe Drinker) (French: Portrait bleu de Angel Fernández de Soto) is a portrait by Spanish artist Pablo Picasso completed in 1903 during his Blue Period. The oil painting depicts Picasso's friend and fellow painter, Angel Fernandez de Soto, in a bar with a glass of absinthe. The painting was previously owned by musical theatre composer Andrew Lloyd Webber. On 23 June 2010, the painting was sold at auction for £34.7 million.. Portrait of Angel Fernández de Soto (also known as The Absinthe Drinker) (French: Portrait bleu de Angel Fernández de Soto) is a portrait by Spanish artist Pablo Picasso completed in 1903 during his Blue Period. The oil painting depicts Picasso's friend and fellow painter, Angel Fernandez de Soto, in a bar with a glass of absinthe. The painting was previously owned by musical theatre composer Andrew Lloyd Webber. On 23 June 2010, the painting was sold at auction for £34.7 million.. 
Tezi Altarpiece. Author Name: Pietro Perugino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Tezi Altarpiece (Italian: Pala Tezi) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Pietro Perugino, housed in the Galleria Nazionale dell'Umbria of Perugia, Italy. The work was once associated to a single predella panel portraying the Last Supper (18 cm × 121 cm or 7.1 in × 47.6 in), now at the  Gemäldegalerie of Berlin.The painting was executed for the Tezi Chapel in the church of Sant'Agostino in Perugia. After that monastic institute was suppressed under the Napoleonic domination of Italy, it was acquired by the Umbrian Gallery.. The Tezi Altarpiece (Italian: Pala Tezi) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Pietro Perugino, housed in the Galleria Nazionale dell'Umbria of Perugia, Italy. The work was once associated to a single predella panel portraying the Last Supper (18 cm × 121 cm or 7.1 in × 47.6 in), now at the Gemäldegalerie of Berlin. The painting was executed for the Tezi Chapel in the church of Sant'Agostino in Perugia. After that monastic institute was suppressed under the Napoleonic domination of Italy, it was acquired by the Umbrian Gallery.. 
Resurrection. Author Name: Piero della Francesca. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Resurrection is a fresco painting by the Italian Renaissance master Piero della Francesca, painted around 1463-65. It was painted for the Palazzo della Residenza in the town of Sansepolcro, Province of Arezzo, region of Tuscany, Italy. Today the palace is the town art museum.. The Resurrection is a fresco painting by the Italian Renaissance master Piero della Francesca, painted around 1463-65. It was painted for the Palazzo della Residenza in the town of Sansepolcro, Province of Arezzo, region of Tuscany, Italy. Today the palace is the town art museum. Though documentation is lacking, the Gothic-style Residenza, the communal meeting hall in which it was painted, was returned by Florentine authorities to the citizens of Sansepolcro, Tuscany, 1 February 1459, as a sign of the restoration of some measure of autonomy to the Borgo;Today the civic structure houses the Museo Civico of Sansepolcro, the artist's birthplace. placed high on the interior wall facing the entrance, the fresco has for its subject an allusion to the name of the city (meaning "Holy Sepulchre"), derived from the presence of two relics of the Holy Sepulchre carried by two pilgrims in the 9th century. Piero's Christ is also present on the town's Coat of Arms.. 
Guardianship. Author Name: James E. Fraser. . . Guardianship is an outdoor 1935 sculpture by American artist James Earle Fraser, installed in front of the National Archives Building in Washington, D.C., United States. Guardianship is a companion piece to Heritage.. Guardianship is an outdoor 1935 sculpture by American artist James Earle Fraser, installed in front of the National Archives Building in Washington, D.C., United States. Guardianship is a companion piece to Heritage.. 
L’Été sans bras. Author Name: Aristide Maillol. . . L’Été sans bras is a sculpture made by Aristide Maillol in 1911.. L’Été sans bras is a sculpture made by Aristide Maillol in 1911.. 
Ansidei Madonna. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Ansidei Madonna (Italian: Pala Ansidei) is a 1505–1507 painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael, painted during his Florentine period. It shows the Blessed Virgin Mary sitting on a wooden throne, with the child Christ on her lap. On her right John the Baptist stands, on her left Saint Nicholas is reading.At the time the painting was commissioned, there were other paintings that made up the grouping for the altarpiece. Of the predellas, the only that remains is Saint John the Baptist Preaching, the others are inexplicably lost.. The Ansidei Madonna (Italian: Pala Ansidei) is a 1505–1507 painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael, painted during his Florentine period. It shows the Blessed Virgin Mary sitting on a wooden throne, with the child Christ on her lap. On her right John the Baptist stands, on her left Saint Nicholas is reading. At the time the painting was commissioned, there were other paintings that made up the grouping for the altarpiece. Of the predellas, the only that remains is Saint John the Baptist Preaching, the others are inexplicably lost. Both the main painting, "Ansidei Madonna", and the predella "Saint John the Baptist Preaching", are located at the National Gallery in London.. 
Angkor I. Author Name: Kelly, Lee. . . Angkor I is an outdoor stainless steel sculpture by Lee Kelly, located at Millennium Plaza Park in Lake Oswego, Oregon, in the United States. The 1994 sculpture stands 14 feet (4.3 m) tall and weighs 1,000 pounds (450 kg), and was influenced by his visit to Southeast Asia one year prior. In 2010, Angkor I appeared in an exhibition of Kelly's work at the Portland Art Museum. In 2011, it was installed at Millennium Plaza Park on loan from the Portland-based Elizabeth Leach Gallery. The Arts Council of Lake Oswego began soliciting donations in 2013 in an attempt to keep the sculpture as part of the city's permanent public art collection, Gallery Without Walls. The fundraising campaign was successful; donations from more than 40 patrons, including major contributions from the Ford Family Found. Angkor I is an outdoor stainless steel sculpture by Lee Kelly, located at Millennium Plaza Park in Lake Oswego, Oregon, in the United States. The 1994 sculpture stands 14 feet (4.3 m) tall and weighs 1,000 pounds (450 kg), and was influenced by his visit to Southeast Asia one year prior. In 2010, Angkor I appeared in an exhibition of Kelly's work at the Portland Art Museum. In 2011, it was installed at Millennium Plaza Park on loan from the Portland-based Elizabeth Leach Gallery. The Arts Council of Lake Oswego began soliciting donations in 2013 in an attempt to keep the sculpture as part of the city's permanent public art collection, Gallery Without Walls. The fundraising campaign was successful; donations from more than 40 patrons, including major contributions from the Ford Family Foundation and the Oregon Arts Commission, made purchase of the sculpture possible. Angkor I has been called a "recognizable icon" and a "gateway" to the park's lake.. 
Ognissanti Madonna. Author Name: Bondone, Giotto Di. . Author Movement: Proto-Renaissance. . Madonna Enthroned, also known as the Ognissanti Madonna, is a painting by the Italian late medieval artist Giotto di Bondone, housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence, Italy.The painting has a traditional Christian subject, representing the Virgin Mary and the Christ Child seated on her lap, with saints and angels surrounding them on all sides. This particular representation of the Virgin is called a Maestà, a popular representation at the time. It is often celebrated as the first painting of the Renaissance due to its newfound naturalism and escape from the constraints of Gothic art.. Madonna Enthroned, also known as the Ognissanti Madonna, is a painting by the Italian late medieval artist Giotto di Bondone, housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence, Italy. The painting has a traditional Christian subject, representing the Virgin Mary and the Christ Child seated on her lap, with saints and angels surrounding them on all sides. This particular representation of the Virgin is called a Maestà, a popular representation at the time. It is often celebrated as the first painting of the Renaissance due to its newfound naturalism and escape from the constraints of Gothic art. It is generally dated to around 1310. While historians have had trouble finding specific information for indisputably attributing many of Giotto's works to the artist, Madonna Enthroned is one piece for which there are a few documents supporting its creation by Giotto. There are many sources that show he spent many years living and creating in Florence. However, the main source that documents Madonna Enthroned specifically is artist Lorenzo Ghiberti's autobiography, I Commentarii (1447). An earlier manuscript document of 1418 also attributes the painting to Giotto, but it is Ghiberti's autobiography that provides the most solid evidence. One of Giotto's later works, Madonna Enthroned was completed in Florence, upon the artist's return to the city. It was originally painted for the Ognissanti Franciscan church in Florence. Built for the Humiliati, a small religious order at the time, the church had many acclaimed paintings designed for it. Specifically, Giotto's Madonna Enthroned was designed for the high altar.. 
Ruth Asawa's San Francisco Fountain. Author Name: Asawa, Ruth. . . Ruth Asawa's San Francisco Fountain, or sometimes simply San Francisco Fountain, is a 1970 bronze sculpture and fountain by Ruth Asawa, located outside the Grand Hyatt San Francisco in downtown San Francisco, California, in the United States. The cylinder-shaped sculpture, which serves as the outer wall of the fountain basin, features bas-relief scenes of San Francisco, "whimsically interrelated". It measures approximately 90 inches (2.3 m) tall, with a diameter of 193 inches (4.9 m), and is set into a base of brick stairs. Albert Lanier served as the architect; credited assistants include Aiko Asawa, Haru Awara, Mae Lee, Mei Mei, Hector Villanueva, and Sally Woodbridge.. Ruth Asawa's San Francisco Fountain, or sometimes simply San Francisco Fountain, is a 1970 bronze sculpture and fountain by Ruth Asawa, located outside the Grand Hyatt San Francisco in downtown San Francisco, California, in the United States. The cylinder-shaped sculpture, which serves as the outer wall of the fountain basin, features bas-relief scenes of San Francisco, "whimsically interrelated". It measures approximately 90 inches (2.3 m) tall, with a diameter of 193 inches (4.9 m), and is set into a base of brick stairs. Albert Lanier served as the architect; credited assistants include Aiko Asawa, Haru Awara, Mae Lee, Mei Mei, Hector Villanueva, and Sally Woodbridge. The work was surveyed and labeled "treatment needed" by the Smithsonian Institution's Save Outdoor Sculpture! program in September 1992.. 
The Bridge in Curve. Author Name: Grace Cossington Smith. . . The Bridge in Curve is a 1930 painting by Australian artist Grace Cossington Smith. The painting depicts the Sydney Harbour Bridge during its construction. It is now considered one of Australia's best modernist paintings, but it was rejected from an exhibition in 1930.Since 1967 the painting has been part of the collection of the National Gallery of Victoria in Melbourne.. The Bridge in Curve is a 1930 painting by Australian artist Grace Cossington Smith. The painting depicts the Sydney Harbour Bridge during its construction. It is now considered one of Australia's best modernist paintings, but it was rejected from an exhibition in 1930. Since 1967 the painting has been part of the collection of the National Gallery of Victoria in Melbourne.. 
Cleopatra Testing Poisons on Condemned Prisoners. Author Name: Alexandre Cabanel. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Academic_art. . Cleopatra Testing Poisons on Condemned Prisoners (Cléopâtre essayant des poisons sur des condamnés à mort) is an 1887 painting by the French artist Alexandre Cabanel. It is now in the Royal Museum of Fine Arts, Antwerp. It shows Cleopatra VII sitting at a banquet observing the effects of poisons on prisoners condemned to death.Cabanel had always had a taste for historical and orientalist themes and when the painting was first seen by the Parisian public he was feted by the critics and showered with honours. Several international collectors attempted to buy the painting.. Cleopatra Testing Poisons on Condemned Prisoners (Cléopâtre essayant des poisons sur des condamnés à mort) is an 1887 painting by the French artist Alexandre Cabanel. It is now in the Royal Museum of Fine Arts, Antwerp. It shows Cleopatra VII sitting at a banquet observing the effects of poisons on prisoners condemned to death. Cabanel had always had a taste for historical and orientalist themes and when the painting was first seen by the Parisian public he was feted by the critics and showered with honours. Several international collectors attempted to buy the painting.. 
Freedom of Speech. Author Name: Norman Rockwell. . . Freedom of Speech is the first of the Four Freedoms paintings by Norman Rockwell that were inspired by United States President Franklin D. Roosevelt in the State of the Union Address, known as Four Freedoms, he delivered on January 6, 1941.. Freedom of Speech is the first of the Four Freedoms paintings by Norman Rockwell that were inspired by United States President Franklin D. Roosevelt in the State of the Union Address, known as Four Freedoms, he delivered on January 6, 1941. Freedom of Speech was published in the February 20, 1943 Issue of The Saturday Evening Post with a matching essay by Booth Tarkington as part of the Four Freedoms series. Rockwell felt that this and Freedom to Worship were the most successful of the set. Since Rockwell liked to depict life as he experienced it or envisioned it, it is not surprising that this image depicts an actual occurrence.. 
The Funeral. Author Name: George Grosz. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dada. . The Funeral (often The Funeral (Dedicated to Oskar Panizza)) is a painting by the German Expressionist artist George Grosz, completed between 1917 and 1918. The work combines elements of Futurism and Cubism to show a funeral procession in a modern urban city, as an infernal abyss populated by twisted and grotesque attendants. The painting is dedicated to the German psychiatrist and avant-garde writer Oskar Panizza, noted for his play Liebeskonzil, which draws on the first historically documented outbreak of syphilis and depicts God the Father as a senile old man. Although Panizza's works, in which he rejected all militarism and religious authority, were deemed blasphemous by both the Church and government of Emperor Wilhelm II, they were later admired by Grosz and other idealists of his ge. The Funeral (often The Funeral (Dedicated to Oskar Panizza)) is a painting by the German Expressionist artist George Grosz, completed between 1917 and 1918. The work combines elements of Futurism and Cubism to show a funeral procession in a modern urban city, as an infernal abyss populated by twisted and grotesque attendants. The painting is dedicated to the German psychiatrist and avant-garde writer Oskar Panizza, noted for his play Liebeskonzil, which draws on the first historically documented outbreak of syphilis and depicts God the Father as a senile old man. Although Panizza's works, in which he rejected all militarism and religious authority, were deemed blasphemous by both the Church and government of Emperor Wilhelm II, they were later admired by Grosz and other idealists of his generation. The painting seeks to emulate medieval depictions of hellscapes, mainly through dramatic colourisation—in particular through its use of red light—as well as through the depiction of multitudes of layered distorted bodies and limbs, echoing the work of Bruegel in the 16th century. A skeleton representing the Grim Reaper sits on the coffin, drinking from a bottle. A mob of mourners gathered around him are presented as ugly, frenzied and as if ridden with alcoholism and late-stage syphilis. Tall claustrophobic buildings are lined above the procession. They seem to heave and bend backwards and forwards, as if about to topple over and collapse onto those cluddered below. Among these buildings is a lone small church, surrounded by bars, nightclubs and offices. Giving a literal voice to the "Dance of Death" depicted by the artist, a sign over one club reads "DANCE TONIGHT". Explaining his intention when creating the work, Grosz said, The painting served as the cover artwork for the 1987 album I Am a Wallet by the British rock band Mccarthy.. 
Lewis and Clark. Author Name: Leo Friedlander. . . Lewis and Clark, also known as the Lewis and Clark Expedition of 1804–1806 Memorial, is an outdoor 1934 white marble sculpture by Leo Friedlander installed outside the Oregon State Capitol in Salem, Oregon, United States.. Lewis and Clark, also known as the Lewis and Clark Expedition of 1804–1806 Memorial, is an outdoor 1934 white marble sculpture by Leo Friedlander installed outside the Oregon State Capitol in Salem, Oregon, United States.. 
Portrait of Guidobaldo da Montefeltro. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Guidobaldo da Montefeltro is a picture by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael, dating from around 1506 and housed in the Uffizi Gallery, Florence. It portrays Guidobaldo da Montefeltro, duke of Urbino.. The Portrait of Guidobaldo da Montefeltro is a picture by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael, dating from around 1506 and housed in the Uffizi Gallery, Florence. It portrays Guidobaldo da Montefeltro, duke of Urbino.. 
Master Lambton: The Red Boy. Author Name: Sir Thomas Lawrence. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . The Red Boy is the popular name of a portrait made in 1825 by Sir Thomas Lawrence. It was originally entitled Master Lambton and depicts Charles William Lambton, the eldest son of John Lambton (later created Earl of Durham).. The Red Boy is the popular name of a portrait made in 1825 by Sir Thomas Lawrence. It was originally entitled Master Lambton and depicts Charles William Lambton, the eldest son of John Lambton (later created Earl of Durham).. 
Penitent Magdalene. Author Name: Titian. . . The Penitent Magdalene is a 1565 oil painting by Titian of saint Mary Magdalene, now in the Hermitage Museum in Saint Petersburg. Unlike his 1533 version of the same subject, Titian has covered Mary's nudity and introduced a vase, an open book and a skull as a memento mori. Its colouring is more mature than the earlier work, using colours harmonising with character. In the background the sky is bathed in the rays of the setting sun, with a dark rock contrasting with the brightly lit figure of Mary.. The Penitent Magdalene is a 1565 oil painting by Titian of saint Mary Magdalene, now in the Hermitage Museum in Saint Petersburg. Unlike his 1533 version of the same subject, Titian has covered Mary's nudity and introduced a vase, an open book and a skull as a memento mori. Its colouring is more mature than the earlier work, using colours harmonising with character. In the background the sky is bathed in the rays of the setting sun, with a dark rock contrasting with the brightly lit figure of Mary.. 
Weymouth Bay. Author Name: John Constable. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . Weymouth Bay: Bowleaze Cove and Jordon Hill was painted by the leading English landscape artist John Constable in 1816–17. The painting now hangs in the National Gallery, London.In October 1816, Constable spent his honeymoon at the village of Osmington near the seaside town of Weymouth in Dorset. The idea for this painting dates from this period. The painting shows a view of Weymouth Bay on the south coast of England, looking west. The painting includes Bowleaze Cove, Jordan Hill. and the small Jordan River flowing over the beach, with Furzy Cliff behind. Beyond that in the far distance is the beach at Greenhill.. Weymouth Bay: Bowleaze Cove and Jordon Hill was painted by the leading English landscape artist John Constable in 1816–17. The painting now hangs in the National Gallery, London. In October 1816, Constable spent his honeymoon at the village of Osmington near the seaside town of Weymouth in Dorset. The idea for this painting dates from this period. The painting shows a view of Weymouth Bay on the south coast of England, looking west. The painting includes Bowleaze Cove, Jordan Hill. and the small Jordan River flowing over the beach, with Furzy Cliff behind. Beyond that in the far distance is the beach at Greenhill. A larger version of the painting called Osmington Shore was exhibited by Constable at the British Institution in 1819.[citation needed]. 
Primavera. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Primavera ([primaˈveːra]), also known as Allegory of Spring, is a tempera panel painting by Italian Renaissance artist Sandro Botticelli. Painted ca. 1482, the painting is described in Culture & Values (2009) as "one of the most popular paintings in Western art". It is also, according to Botticelli, Primavera (1998), "one of the most written about, and most controversial paintings in the world.". Primavera ([primaˈveːra]), also known as Allegory of Spring, is a tempera panel painting by Italian Renaissance artist Sandro Botticelli. Painted ca. 1482, the painting is described in Culture & Values (2009) as "one of the most popular paintings in Western art". It is also, according to Botticelli, Primavera (1998), "one of the most written about, and most controversial paintings in the world." Most critics agree that the painting, depicting a group of mythological figures in a garden, is allegorical for the lush growth of Spring. Other meanings have also been explored. Among them, the work is sometimes cited as illustrating the ideal of Neoplatonic love. The painting itself carries no title and was first called La Primavera by the art historian Giorgio Vasari who saw it at Villa Castello, just outside Florence, in 1550. The history of the painting is not certainly known, though it seems to have been commissioned by one of the Medici family. It contains references to the Roman poets Ovid and Lucretius, and may also reference a poem by Poliziano. Since 1919 the painting has been part of the collection of the Uffizi Gallery in Florence, Italy.. 
The March of the Guards to Finchley. Author Name: William  Hogarth. . . The March of the Guards to Finchley, also known as The March to Finchley or The March of the Guards, is a 1750 oil-on-canvas painting by English artist William Hogarth, owned by the Thomas Coram Foundation for Children since 1750 and now housed at the Foundling Museum. Hogarth was well known for his satirical works, and The March of the Guards to Finchley has been said to have given full scope to this sense of satire; it was described by Hogarth himself as "steeped in humour".. The March of the Guards to Finchley, also known as The March to Finchley or The March of the Guards, is a 1750 oil-on-canvas painting by English artist William Hogarth, owned by the Thomas Coram Foundation for Children since 1750 and now housed at the Foundling Museum. Hogarth was well known for his satirical works, and The March of the Guards to Finchley has been said to have given full scope to this sense of satire; it was described by Hogarth himself as "steeped in humour". The painting is a depiction of a fictional mustering of troops on the Tottenham Court Road to march north to Finchley to defend the capital from the second Jacobite rebellion of 1745, which was part of a series of uprisings that had been occurring since the late 17th century and were aimed at returning the Stuart Dynasty to the throne after the Glorious Revolution of 1688. It portrays the soldiers in a humorous light, placing exaggerated emphasis on their lack of training and respect for discipline. The March of the Guards to Finchley was originally intended to be a gift to the incumbent King of England, George II. However, George II was insulted by the apparent jab at his best troops, and rejected it when it was offered to him. Upset at the King's spurning of his work, Hogarth opted to change the engraving and present the painting instead to the King of Prussia, Frederick II, who, being known for his skills as a soldier rather than an artist, was reportedly much more satisfied with the gift.. 
Portrait of Frederick III of Saxony. Author Name: Albrecht Dürer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Frederick III of Saxony is a tempera on canvas painting by German Renaissance artist Albrecht Dürer, executed in 1496. It is housed in the Gemäldegalerie of Berlin, Germany.. The Portrait of Frederick III of Saxony is a tempera on canvas painting by German Renaissance artist Albrecht Dürer, executed in 1496. It is housed in the Gemäldegalerie of Berlin, Germany.. 
Aristotle with a Bust of Homer. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Aristotle with a Bust of Homer, also known as Aristotle Contemplating a Bust of Homer, is an oil-on-canvas painting by Rembrandt.It was painted in 1653, as a commission from Don Antonio Ruffo, from Messina in Sicily, who did not request a particular subject.The interpretation of methodical science deferring to art is discussed at length in in which Held notes that Aristotle's right hand, traditionally the favored hand, is on the bust of Homer, is higher, and painted lighter than the left hand on the gold chain given to him by Alexander.. Aristotle with a Bust of Homer, also known as Aristotle Contemplating a Bust of Homer, is an oil-on-canvas painting by Rembrandt. It was painted in 1653, as a commission from Don Antonio Ruffo, from Messina in Sicily, who did not request a particular subject. Aristotle, world-weary, looks at the bust of blind, humble Homer, on which he rests one of his hands. This has variously been interpreted as the man of sound, methodical science deferring to Art, or as the wealthy and famous philosopher, wearing the jeweled belt given to him by Alexander the Great, envying the life of the poor blind bard. It has also been suggested that this is Rembrandt's commentary on the power of portraiture. The interpretation of methodical science deferring to art is discussed at length in in which Held notes that Aristotle's right hand, traditionally the favored hand, is on the bust of Homer, is higher, and painted lighter than the left hand on the gold chain given to him by Alexander. The exact subject being portrayed in this portrait has been challenged in the book by Simon Schama titled Rembrandt's Eyes, applying the scholarship of Paul Crenshaw. Schama presents a substantial argument that it was the famous ancient Greek painter Apelles who is depicted in contemplation by Rembrandt and not Aristotle. It was purchased in 1961 for $2.3 million by the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City, USA. At the time this was the highest amount ever paid for any picture at public or private sale. During the renovation of the Rembrandt wing of the Metropolitan Museum, the painting was retitled in November 2013 as Aristotle with a Bust of Homer. The painting forms the central theme of Joseph Heller's 1988 novel Picture This.. 
The Wayfarer. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . The Wayfarer (or The Pedlar) is a Hieronymus Bosch painting. It is currently in Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen in Rotterdam. This painting is round and 71.5 cm (28.1 in) in diameter. It is one of the fragments of a partially lost triptych or diptych, which also included the Allegory of Gluttony and Lust, the Ship of Fools and Death and the Miser.Tim Storrier's self-portrait The Histrionic Wayfarer (after Bosch) won the 2012 Archibald Prize.. The Wayfarer (or The Pedlar) is a Hieronymus Bosch painting. It is currently in Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen in Rotterdam. This painting is round and 71.5 cm (28.1 in) in diameter. It is one of the fragments of a partially lost triptych or diptych, which also included the Allegory of Gluttony and Lust, the Ship of Fools and Death and the Miser. The figure is similar to the man depicted in The Path of Life panel on the exterior of The Haywain Triptych. The character has been interpreted as choosing between the path of virtue at the gate on the right or debauchery in the house on the left, or as the prodigal son returning home from the world. Tim Storrier's self-portrait The Histrionic Wayfarer (after Bosch) won the 2012 Archibald Prize.. 
The Archdukes Albert and Isabella Visiting a Collector's Cabinet. Author Name: Francken, Hieronymus. . . The Archdukes Albert and Isabella Visiting a Collector's Cabinet is a 17th-century Flemish collaborative painting, now regarded as by Jan Brueghel the Elder and Hieronymus Francken II. It is part of the collection of The Walters Art Museum in Baltimore, Maryland.. The Archdukes Albert and Isabella Visiting a Collector's Cabinet is a 17th-century Flemish collaborative painting, now regarded as by Jan Brueghel the Elder and Hieronymus Francken II. It is part of the collection of The Walters Art Museum in Baltimore, Maryland. Archdukes Albert and Isabella jointly ruled the Spanish Netherlands in the beginning of the 17th century and were considered patrons of the arts. Until the death of Albert in 1621, the area of Flanders enjoyed peace and prosperity. This type of painting known as a constkamer, gallery painting or a depiction of a collector's cabinet was popular during this time in Flanders. The painting is deemed a collaborative effort between the artists Jan Brueghel the Elder and Hieronymus Francken II. It had been attributed previously to Hieronymus Francken II's brother Frans Francken II and Adriaen van Stalbemt to whom is attributed a similar work which is now in the collection at the Prado in Madrid.. 
Obos. Author Name: George Tsutakawa. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Northwest_School_(art). . Obos is a sculptural fountain that was commissioned for the Jefferson Plaza in front of the Jefferson National Life Building at 3 Virginia Avenue in downtown Indianapolis, Indiana. The hammered silicon bronze fountain was designed by George Tsutakawa and dedicated on September 9, 1971, but removed in 2008. In 2012 it was purchased by John Braseth, a Seattle art dealer, who has restored it in preparation for public display in the Seattle, Washington area.. Obos is a sculptural fountain that was commissioned for the Jefferson Plaza in front of the Jefferson National Life Building at 3 Virginia Avenue in downtown Indianapolis, Indiana. The hammered silicon bronze fountain was designed by George Tsutakawa and dedicated on September 9, 1971, but removed in 2008. In 2012 it was purchased by John Braseth, a Seattle art dealer, who has restored it in preparation for public display in the Seattle, Washington area.. 
Water Sky Garden. Author Name: Echelman, Janet. . . Water Sky Garden is a sculptural environment designed by artist Janet Echelman. The garden is located outside the Richmond Olympic Oval, an official venue for the 2010 Vancouver Olympic Games. The installation consists of a wetland treatment pond, 300 ft. boardwalk, two 52 ft. pedestrian bridges, two net sculptures, and a fountain.. Water Sky Garden is a sculptural environment designed by artist Janet Echelman. The garden is located outside the Richmond Olympic Oval, an official venue for the 2010 Vancouver Olympic Games. The installation consists of a wetland treatment pond, 300 ft. boardwalk, two 52 ft. pedestrian bridges, two net sculptures, and a fountain.. 
The Madonna of Port Lligat. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The Madonna of Port Lligat is the name of two paintings by Salvador Dalí. The first was created in 1949, measuring 49 x 37.5 centimetres (19.3 x 14.8 in), and is housed in the Haggerty Museum of Art at Marquette University in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA. Dalí submitted it to Pope Pius XII for approval, which was granted. Dalí created a second painting in 1950 with the same title and same themes, with various poses and details changed, measuring 275.3 x 209.8 centimetres (108.4 x 82.6 in); As of 2008, the 1950 Madonna is exhibited at the Fukuoka Art Museum in Japan.. The Madonna of Port Lligat is the name of two paintings by Salvador Dalí. The first was created in 1949, measuring 49 x 37.5 centimetres (19.3 x 14.8 in), and is housed in the Haggerty Museum of Art at Marquette University in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA. Dalí submitted it to Pope Pius XII for approval, which was granted. Dalí created a second painting in 1950 with the same title and same themes, with various poses and details changed, measuring 275.3 x 209.8 centimetres (108.4 x 82.6 in); As of 2008, the 1950 Madonna is exhibited at the Fukuoka Art Museum in Japan. The paintings depict a seated Madonna (posed by Dalí's wife, Gala) with the infant Christ on her lap. Both figures have rectangular holes cut into their torsos, suggestive of their transcendent status. In the 1950 version Christ has bread at the center of his figure. They are posed in a landscape, with features of the coast of Port Lligat, Catalonia, in the background, with surrealist details including nails, fish, seashells, and an egg. The 1949 Madonna has a sea urchin; the 1950 Madonna has a rhinoceros and figures of angels, also posed by Gala. A poem and book based on the painting, The Virgin of Port Lligat by Fray Angelico Chavez, was selected as one of the best books of 1959 by the Catholic Library Association.. 
Nash. Author Name: Kelly, Lee. . . Nash is an outdoor 1978–1979 sculpture by Lee Kelly, installed in southeast Portland, Oregon, United States.. Nash is an outdoor 1978–1979 sculpture by Lee Kelly, installed in southeast Portland, Oregon, United States.. 
Landscape with a Carriage and a Train. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Landscape with a Carriage and a Train is an oil painting by Vincent van Gogh that he painted in June 1890 when he lived in Auvers-sur-Oise, France.. Landscape with a Carriage and a Train is an oil painting by Vincent van Gogh that he painted in June 1890 when he lived in Auvers-sur-Oise, France.. 
The Sunny South. Author Name: Tom Roberts. . . The Sunny South is a 1887 painting by the Australian artist Tom Roberts. The painting depicts a group of boys swimming naked at Ricketts Point at Beaumaris, Victoria, a suburb of Melbourne.The painting was acquired by the National Gallery of Victoria in 1940 with funds from the Felton Bequest.. The Sunny South is a 1887 painting by the Australian artist Tom Roberts. The painting depicts a group of boys swimming naked at Ricketts Point at Beaumaris, Victoria, a suburb of Melbourne. The painting was acquired by the National Gallery of Victoria in 1940 with funds from the Felton Bequest.. 
The Standing March. Author Name: Darren Aronofsky. . . The Standing March is a collaborative art installation by the French artist JR and the American filmmaker Darren Aronofsky. The artwork, which depicts more than 500 people, is being projected onto the facade of the National Assembly building during the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris.. The Standing March is a collaborative art installation by the French artist JR and the American filmmaker Darren Aronofsky. The artwork, which depicts more than 500 people, is being projected onto the facade of the National Assembly building during the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris.. 
The All-Pervading. Author Name: George Frederic Watts. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Symbolism_(arts). . The All-Pervading is an allegorical painting produced between 1887 and 1890 by the English artist George Frederic Watts. Influenced by the Sibyls of the Sistine Chapel ceiling, it symbolises the spirit Watts saw as governing "the immeasurable expanse". He presented it to the Tate Gallery in 1899 and it is now on loan from Tate Britain to the Watts Gallery in Compton, Guildford. He also produced a variant on it as the altarpiece for the Watts Mortuary Chapel.. The All-Pervading is an allegorical painting produced between 1887 and 1890 by the English artist George Frederic Watts. Influenced by the Sibyls of the Sistine Chapel ceiling, it symbolises the spirit Watts saw as governing "the immeasurable expanse". He presented it to the Tate Gallery in 1899 and it is now on loan from Tate Britain to the Watts Gallery in Compton, Guildford. He also produced a variant on it as the altarpiece for the Watts Mortuary Chapel.. 
Amor Alien. Author Name: Laura Molina. . . Naked Dave (The Naked Dave Project) refers to a series of paintings created by Laura Molina, inspired by her relationship with the late illustrator and Rocketeer creator, Dave Stevens (1955-2008). A five-month-long relationship between the artists ended in early December, 1978 after she miscarried their child at eleven weeks. Molina started the series in 1993 after an attempted reconciliation initiated by Stevens failed to settle things between them.. Naked Dave (The Naked Dave Project) refers to a series of paintings created by Laura Molina, inspired by her relationship with the late illustrator and Rocketeer creator, Dave Stevens (1955-2008). A five-month-long relationship between the artists ended in early December, 1978 after she miscarried their child at eleven weeks. Molina started the series in 1993 after an attempted reconciliation initiated by Stevens failed to settle things between them. Stevens protested the use of his likeness, but Molina argued that she was protected from legal ramifications citing Polydoros v. Twentieth Century Fox Film (67 Cal. App.4th 318, 1997) in which Michael Polydoros contended that David Mickey Evans, the writer-director of the movie The Sandlot had violated his privacy by including a character based on him. The courts ruled in favor of Twentieth Century Fox, stating the film was protected free speech.. 
The Great Wall of Los Angeles. Author Name: Judy Baca. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Chicano_Moratorium. . The Great Wall of Los Angeles is a mural designed by Judith Baca and executed with the help of over 400 community youth and artists coordinated by the Social and Public Art Resource Center (SPARC). It was Baca's first mural and SPARC's first public art project. Its official title is The History of California.. The Great Wall of Los Angeles is a mural designed by Judith Baca and executed with the help of over 400 community youth and artists coordinated by the Social and Public Art Resource Center (SPARC). It was Baca's first mural and SPARC's first public art project. Its official title is The History of California. The Great Wall is located on Coldwater Canyon Ave between Oxnard St & Burbank Blvd and the eastern edge of the Valley College campus in the San Fernando Valley community of Valley Glen on the concrete sides of the Tujunga Wash, part of the drainage system of Los Angeles, California. The mural is 13 feet high, painted directly on concrete. With a length of 2,754 feet (840 m) (covering over 6 city blocks) it is credited as one of the longest murals in the world.. 
En Canot. Author Name: Jean Metzinger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . En Canot, referred to in various publications as Im Boot, Le Canot, Femme au Canot et à l'Ombrelle, En Bâteau, In the Canoe, The Boat, On the Beach, Am Strand, Im Schiff, V Člunu and Im Kanu, is an oil painting by Jean Metzinger. The work was exhibited in Paris at the Salon d'Automne of 1913. The following year it was shown at Moderní umění, 45th Exhibition of SVU Mánes in Prague, February-March 1914 (a collection of works assembled by Alexandre Mercereau). This "Survey of Modern Art" was one of the last prewar exhibitions in Prague. En Canot was exhibited again, in July of the same year, at the Galerie Der Sturm, Berlin. The painting was acquired in 1916 by Georg Muche at Galerie Der Sturm.. En Canot, referred to in various publications as Im Boot, Le Canot, Femme au Canot et à l'Ombrelle, En Bâteau, In the Canoe, The Boat, On the Beach, Am Strand, Im Schiff, V Člunu and Im Kanu, is an oil painting by Jean Metzinger. The work was exhibited in Paris at the Salon d'Automne of 1913. The following year it was shown at Moderní umění, 45th Exhibition of SVU Mánes in Prague, February-March 1914 (a collection of works assembled by Alexandre Mercereau). This "Survey of Modern Art" was one of the last prewar exhibitions in Prague. En Canot was exhibited again, in July of the same year, at the Galerie Der Sturm, Berlin. The painting was acquired in 1916 by Georg Muche at Galerie Der Sturm. En Canot was exhibited in the Kronprinzenpalais, Nationalgalerie, Berlin, 1930, where it had been housed since 1927. The work was acquired by the Nationalgalerie in 1936 (on deposit by the Ministerium für Wissenschaft, Kunst und Volksbildung), where it was placed on display in Room 5. It was later confiscated by the Nazis around 1936, displayed at the Degenerate Art Exhibition (Entartete Kunst) in Munich and other cities, 1937–38, and has been missing ever since.. 
A Faun Teased by Children. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . A Faun Teased by Children is a marble sculpture by Italian artists Gian Lorenzo Bernini and his father Pietro Bernini. It was executed in 1616 and 1617, when Gian Lorenzo was not yet twenty years old. It is currently in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.. A Faun Teased by Children is a marble sculpture by Italian artists Gian Lorenzo Bernini and his father Pietro Bernini. It was executed in 1616 and 1617, when Gian Lorenzo was not yet twenty years old. It is currently in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.. 
Metamorphosis or Metamophose. Author Name: Joan Miró. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . Metamorphosis is a series of collage-drawings by Joan Miró, made between 1935 and 1936. This is a series of works made as an interlude while Miró was painting the series Paintings on masonite.. Metamorphosis is a series of collage-drawings by Joan Miró, made between 1935 and 1936. This is a series of works made as an interlude while Miró was painting the series Paintings on masonite.. 
Angel. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Baronci Altarpiece was a painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael. His first recorded commission, it was made for Andrea Baronci's chapel in the church of Sant'Agostino in Città di Castello, near Urbino. The altarpiece was seriously damaged during an earthquake in 1789, and since 1849 fragments of the original painting have been part of different collections.. The Baronci Altarpiece was a painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael. His first recorded commission, it was made for Andrea Baronci's chapel in the church of Sant'Agostino in Città di Castello, near Urbino. The altarpiece was seriously damaged during an earthquake in 1789, and since 1849 fragments of the original painting have been part of different collections.. 
She Guardian. Author Name: Dashi Namdakov. . Author Movement: Bronze Sculpture, Post-Modernism. . She-Guardian is a land-scape sculpture by Russian sculptor Dashi Namdakov. It depicts a mythical winged creature standing guard over her young. The statue is 11 metres (36 ft) high to the tip of the wings.The monument was installed by Halcyon Gallery with approval and consent of the Westminster Council.Some people say the sculpture exhibits an aggressive posture but Dashi said: "I've never seen any threat in its open mouth. I recognized it as defense of the youth and protection of the family.". She-Guardian is a land-scape sculpture by Russian sculptor Dashi Namdakov. It depicts a mythical winged creature standing guard over her young. The statue is 11 metres (36 ft) high to the tip of the wings. The monument was installed by Halcyon Gallery with approval and consent of the Westminster Council. Some people say the sculpture exhibits an aggressive posture but Dashi said: "I've never seen any threat in its open mouth. I recognized it as defense of the youth and protection of the family.". 
Nude Descending a Staircase, No. 2. Author Name: Marcel Duchamp. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Conceptual_art. . Nude Descending a Staircase, No. 2 (French: Nu descendant un escalier n° 2) is a 1912 painting by Marcel Duchamp. The work is widely regarded as a Modernist classic and has become one of the most famous of its time. Before its first presentation at the Parisian 1912 Salon des Indépendants, it was rejected by the Cubists as too Futurist. Yet the work was exhibited with the same group at Galeries J. Dalmau, Exposició d'Art Cubista, in Barcelona, 20 April–10 May 1912, and subsequently caused a huge stir during its exhibition at the 1913 Armory Show in New York. The painting was reproduced in Les Peintres Cubistes, Méditations Esthétiques by Guillaume Apollinaire, published in 1913. Nude Descending a Staircase is in the Louise and Walter Arensberg Collection of the Philadelphia Museum of Art.. Nude Descending a Staircase, No. 2 (French: Nu descendant un escalier n° 2) is a 1912 painting by Marcel Duchamp. The work is widely regarded as a Modernist classic and has become one of the most famous of its time. Before its first presentation at the Parisian 1912 Salon des Indépendants, it was rejected by the Cubists as too Futurist. Yet the work was exhibited with the same group at Galeries J. Dalmau, Exposició d'Art Cubista, in Barcelona, 20 April–10 May 1912, and subsequently caused a huge stir during its exhibition at the 1913 Armory Show in New York. The painting was reproduced in Les Peintres Cubistes, Méditations Esthétiques by Guillaume Apollinaire, published in 1913. Nude Descending a Staircase is in the Louise and Walter Arensberg Collection of the Philadelphia Museum of Art.. 
Hell. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . Hell is a Hieronymus Bosch painting made after 1490. It is currently in the Palazzo Ducale, in Venice, Italy.This painting is part of a series of four, the others are Ascent of the Blessed, Terrestrial Paradise and Fall of the Damned. In this panel it shows the punishment of the wicked with diverse kinds of torture laid out by demons.. Hell is a Hieronymus Bosch painting made after 1490. It is currently in the Palazzo Ducale, in Venice, Italy. This painting is part of a series of four, the others are Ascent of the Blessed, Terrestrial Paradise and Fall of the Damned. In this panel it shows the punishment of the wicked with diverse kinds of torture laid out by demons.. 
Madonna and Saint Anne. Author Name: Leonardo da Vinci. . . The Virgin and Child with Saint Anne is an oil painting by Leonardo da Vinci depicting St Anne, her daughter the Virgin Mary and the infant Jesus. Christ is shown grappling with a sacrificial lamb symbolizing his Passion as the Virgin tries to restrain him. The painting was commissioned as the high altarpiece for the Church of Santissima Annunziata in Florence and its theme had long preoccupied Leonardo.. The Virgin and Child with Saint Anne is an oil painting by Leonardo da Vinci depicting St Anne, her daughter the Virgin Mary and the infant Jesus. Christ is shown grappling with a sacrificial lamb symbolizing his Passion as the Virgin tries to restrain him. The painting was commissioned as the high altarpiece for the Church of Santissima Annunziata in Florence and its theme had long preoccupied Leonardo.. 
Baptism of Christ. Author Name: Pietro Perugino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Baptism of Christ is a fresco by the Italian Renaissance painter Pietro Perugino and his workshop, executed around 1482 and located in the Sistine Chapel, Rome.. The Baptism of Christ is a fresco by the Italian Renaissance painter Pietro Perugino and his workshop, executed around 1482 and located in the Sistine Chapel, Rome.. 
Naked Woman Climbing a Staircase. Author Name: Joan Miró. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . Naked Woman Climbing a Staircase (originally in French Femme nue montant l'escalier) is a drawing done with pencil and charcoal on card made by Joan Miró in 1937. It is part of the permanent collection of the Fundació Joan Miró in Barcelona.. Naked Woman Climbing a Staircase (originally in French Femme nue montant l'escalier) is a drawing done with pencil and charcoal on card made by Joan Miró in 1937. It is part of the permanent collection of the Fundació Joan Miró in Barcelona.. 
Clothespin. Author Name: Claes Oldenburg. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Clothespin is a weathering steel sculpture, by Claes Oldenburg. It is located at Centre Square, 1500 Market Street, Philadelphia. It is designed to appear as a large black clothespin.Oldenburg is noted for his attempts to democratize art, and the location of Clothespin, above SEPTA's City Hall subway station, allows thousands of viewers to view it on a daily basis. It was dedicated June 25, 1976. Made of Corten steel, Clothespin is praised by art critics for its velvety texture and weathered, warm reddish-brown color. The silvery steel "spring" part the two textured work resembles the numerals "76", apt for the United States Bicentennial year. Tying in Philadelphia's colonial heritage with its difficult present, Clothespin addresses the city's civic issues and attempts to close the gap bet. Clothespin is a weathering steel sculpture, by Claes Oldenburg. It is located at Centre Square, 1500 Market Street, Philadelphia. It is designed to appear as a large black clothespin.Oldenburg is noted for his attempts to democratize art, and the location of Clothespin, above SEPTA's City Hall subway station, allows thousands of viewers to view it on a daily basis. It was dedicated June 25, 1976. Made of Corten steel, Clothespin is praised by art critics for its velvety texture and weathered, warm reddish-brown color. The silvery steel "spring" part the two textured work resembles the numerals "76", apt for the United States Bicentennial year. Tying in Philadelphia's colonial heritage with its difficult present, Clothespin addresses the city's civic issues and attempts to close the gap between income levels within the city through its universally recognized form.The design has been likened to the "embracing couple" in Constantin Brâncuși's sculpture The Kiss in the Philadelphia Museum of Art. It was commissioned in May 1974, by developer Jack Wolgin, as part of the Philadelphia Redevelopment Authority's one percent for art program.. 
The Three Ages of Man and Death. Author Name: Hans Baldung. . . The The Three Ages of Man and Death is a 16th-century painting by Hans Baldung. It is part of a set of similarly themed paintings by Baldung, the others of which are The Three Ages of Woman and Death and The Three Graces. It is an allegorical painting which alludes to the transience of beauty and the fragility of human life.. The The Three Ages of Man and Death is a 16th-century painting by Hans Baldung. It is part of a set of similarly themed paintings by Baldung, the others of which are The Three Ages of Woman and Death and The Three Graces. It is an allegorical painting which alludes to the transience of beauty and the fragility of human life.. 
Una Mestiza. Author Name: Juan Luna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Una Mestiza ("A Mestiza"), sometimes referred to as La Mestiza ("The Mestiza"), is an 1887 painting by award-winning Filipino painter and hero Juan Luna. The masterpiece is also known as La mestiza en su tocador which translates into English as The Mestiza at Her Dressing Table or Mestiza Lady at Her Dresser. Una Mestiza is also alternately called Charing. Coincidentally, this alternate title is the nickname of Luna's sister-in-law Rosario Melgar. Luna donated Una Mestiza to the Biblioteca Museu Victor Balaguer (Victor Balaguer Library Museum) of Vilanova i la Geltrú in the province of Barcelona in Spain. The Una Mestiza painting won an award at the Exposicion General de las Filipinas (Philippine General Exposition).. The Una Mestiza ("A Mestiza"), sometimes referred to as La Mestiza ("The Mestiza"), is an 1887 painting by award-winning Filipino painter and hero Juan Luna. The masterpiece is also known as La mestiza en su tocador which translates into English as The Mestiza at Her Dressing Table or Mestiza Lady at Her Dresser. Una Mestiza is also alternately called Charing. Coincidentally, this alternate title is the nickname of Luna's sister-in-law Rosario Melgar. Luna donated Una Mestiza to the Biblioteca Museu Victor Balaguer (Victor Balaguer Library Museum) of Vilanova i la Geltrú in the province of Barcelona in Spain. The Una Mestiza painting won an award at the Exposicion General de las Filipinas (Philippine General Exposition).. 
Bharat Mata. Author Name: Abanindranath Tagore. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Bengal_School_of_Art. . Bharat Mata is an epic painting by celebrated Indian painter, Abanindranath Tagore.This painting depicts Bharat Mata.. Bharat Mata is an epic painting by celebrated Indian painter, Abanindranath Tagore. This painting depicts Bharat Mata.. 
The Langlois Bridge at Arles. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . The Langlois Bridge at Arles is the subject of four oil paintings, one watercolor and four drawings by Vincent van Gogh. The works, made in 1888 when Van Gogh lived in Arles, in southern France, represent a melding of formal and creative aspects. Van Gogh leverages a perspective frame that he built and used in The Hague to create precise lines and angles when portraying perspective.. The Langlois Bridge at Arles is the subject of four oil paintings, one watercolor and four drawings by Vincent van Gogh. The works, made in 1888 when Van Gogh lived in Arles, in southern France, represent a melding of formal and creative aspects. Van Gogh leverages a perspective frame that he built and used in The Hague to create precise lines and angles when portraying perspective. Van Gogh was influenced by Japanese woodcut prints, as evidenced by his simplified use of color to create a harmonious and unified image. Contrasting colors, such as blue and yellow, were used to bring a vibrancy to the works. He painted with an impasto, or thickly applied paint, using color to depict the reflection of light. The subject matter, a drawbridge on a canal, reminded him of his homeland in the Netherlands. He asked his brother Theo to frame and send one of the paintings to an art dealer in the Netherlands. The reconstructed Langlois Bridge is now named Pont Van-Gogh.. 
The Cyclops. Author Name: Odilon Redon. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . The Cyclops is a painting by Odilon Redon depicting a myth starring an "unlucky naiad Galatea, loved by Polyphemus, the most famous Cyclops." Like most Cyclops in mythology, Polyphemus was villainized as a wild creature that hunted its victims and then consumed them. This subject had been painted before by artists such as Moreau; however Redon has taken this myth and given Polyphemus a makeover. In Redon's version, Polyphemus is shown as a non-threatening passive creature. The normally menacing beast is shown softly gazing with a large eye that has been seen in previous Redon works. Galatea, the naiad, is shown naked and vulnerably lying on a patch of vegetation. It appears Polyphemus is keeping one gentle eye watching over the "sexualized maiden." He has hidden himself from Galatea behind. The Cyclops is a painting by Odilon Redon depicting a myth starring an "unlucky naiad Galatea, loved by Polyphemus, the most famous Cyclops." Like most Cyclops in mythology, Polyphemus was villainized as a wild creature that hunted its victims and then consumed them. This subject had been painted before by artists such as Moreau; however Redon has taken this myth and given Polyphemus a makeover. In Redon's version, Polyphemus is shown as a non-threatening passive creature. The normally menacing beast is shown softly gazing with a large eye that has been seen in previous Redon works. Galatea, the naiad, is shown naked and vulnerably lying on a patch of vegetation. It appears Polyphemus is keeping one gentle eye watching over the "sexualized maiden." He has hidden himself from Galatea behind the rocky terrain, too shy to directly confront her "helpless" form. Redon's departure from the normal depiction of Polyphemus was influenced by his dream-like style and ambivalence toward the artistic norm.. 
Nuns of the Battlefield. Author Name: Connor, Jerome. . . Nuns of the Battlefield is a public artwork made in 1924 by Irish artist Jerome Connor, located at the intersection of Rhode Island Ave NW, M St & Connecticut Ave NW in Washington, D.C., United States. A tribute to the more than 600 nuns who nursed soldiers of both armies during the American Civil War, it is one of two monuments in the District that mark women's roles in the conflict. It is a contributing monument to the Civil War Monuments in Washington, D.C., listed on the National Register of Historic Places. In 1993, it was surveyed for the Smithsonian Institution's Save Outdoor Sculpture! program.. Nuns of the Battlefield is a public artwork made in 1924 by Irish artist Jerome Connor, located at the intersection of Rhode Island Ave NW, M St & Connecticut Ave NW in Washington, D.C., United States. A tribute to the more than 600 nuns who nursed soldiers of both armies during the American Civil War, it is one of two monuments in the District that mark women's roles in the conflict. It is a contributing monument to the Civil War Monuments in Washington, D.C., listed on the National Register of Historic Places. In 1993, it was surveyed for the Smithsonian Institution's Save Outdoor Sculpture! program.. 
Rondanini Pietà. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Rondanini Pietà is a marble sculpture that Michelangelo worked on from the 1550s until the last days of his life, in 1564. It is housed in the Museum of Rondanini Pietà  of Sforza Castle in Milan. This final sculpture revisited the theme of the Virgin Mary mourning over the body of the dead Christ, which he had first explored in his Pietà of 1499. Like his late series of drawings of the Crucifixion and the sculpture of the Deposition of Christ intended for his own tomb, it was produced at a time when Michelangelo's sense of his own mortality (and with it his spirituality) was growing.. The Rondanini Pietà is a marble sculpture that Michelangelo worked on from the 1550s until the last days of his life, in 1564. It is housed in the Museum of Rondanini Pietà of Sforza Castle in Milan. This final sculpture revisited the theme of the Virgin Mary mourning over the body of the dead Christ, which he had first explored in his Pietà of 1499. Like his late series of drawings of the Crucifixion and the sculpture of the Deposition of Christ intended for his own tomb, it was produced at a time when Michelangelo's sense of his own mortality (and with it his spirituality) was growing. The Rondanini Pietà was begun before the Deposition, although in his dying days Michelangelo hacked at the marble block until only the dismembered right arm of Christ survived from the sculpture as originally conceived. The spectral, waif-like Virgin and Christ are a departure from the idealised figures that exemplified the sculptor's earlier style, and have been said to bear more of a resemblance to the attenuated figures of Gothic sculpture than those of the Renaissance. When viewing the sculpture from certain rear angles, it looks as if Jesus is holding Mary up with his back, instead of Mary cradling Jesus. It is said that Michelangelo carefully crafted it this way to represent how Jesus's spirit might actually have been comforting Mary in her loss. South African visual artist Marlene Dumas based her 2012 painting Homage to Michelangelo on the Rondanini Pietà.. 
A Youth with a Jug. Author Name: Judith Leyster. . . A Youth with a Jug is an oil painting currently in a private collection.. A Youth with a Jug is an oil painting currently in a private collection.. 
Pilgrims Going To Church. Author Name: George Henry Boughton. . . Pilgrims Going To Church (1867) — originally The Early Puritans of New England Going to Church — is a celebrated and much reproduced painting by Anglo-American painter George Henry Boughton (1833–1905).. Pilgrims Going To Church (1867) — originally The Early Puritans of New England Going to Church — is a celebrated and much reproduced painting by Anglo-American painter George Henry Boughton (1833–1905).. 
Orphan Man with Top Hat. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Adrianus Jacobus Zuyderland was  Vincent van Gogh's favorite model during his Hague period. He appears in dozens of drawings, easily identified by his bald head and prominent white whiskers, and he was the model for the drawing which was the basis for van Gogh's later iconic painting At Eternity's Gate.. Adrianus Jacobus Zuyderland was Vincent van Gogh's favorite model during his Hague period. He appears in dozens of drawings, easily identified by his bald head and prominent white whiskers, and he was the model for the drawing which was the basis for van Gogh's later iconic painting At Eternity's Gate.. 
Modern Rome – Campo Vaccino. Author Name: J. M. W. Turner. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . Modern Rome – Campo Vaccino is a landscape by British artist J. M. W. Turner completed in 1839. It is Turner's final painting of Rome and had been in the possession of the family of the 5th Earl of Rosebery since 1878, until the painting came to auction, 7 July 2010. It was bought by the J. Paul Getty Museum, Los Angeles, and was subject to an export bar to allow a British gallery time to attempt to match the Getty's bid. The painting is now on view at the Getty Center.. Modern Rome – Campo Vaccino is a landscape by British artist J. M. W. Turner completed in 1839. It is Turner's final painting of Rome and had been in the possession of the family of the 5th Earl of Rosebery since 1878, until the painting came to auction, 7 July 2010. It was bought by the J. Paul Getty Museum, Los Angeles, and was subject to an export bar to allow a British gallery time to attempt to match the Getty's bid. The painting is now on view at the Getty Center.. 
Christ Washing the Disciples' Feet. Author Name: Tintoretto. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . Christ Washing the Disciples' Feet was a favourite theme of Tintoretto, and there are at least six known works by him on the subject. The scene comes from a passage in John 13 where before the Last Supper Christ washes the feet of his disciples. This passage called for a complex image with many characters in a variety of poses and motions, and the diversity and challenge attracted Tintoretto. The paintings were commissioned for various churches of Venice, though since then four of the six have left Italy.. Christ Washing the Disciples' Feet was a favourite theme of Tintoretto, and there are at least six known works by him on the subject. The scene comes from a passage in John 13 where before the Last Supper Christ washes the feet of his disciples. This passage called for a complex image with many characters in a variety of poses and motions, and the diversity and challenge attracted Tintoretto. The paintings were commissioned for various churches of Venice, though since then four of the six have left Italy.. 
Three Travellers before a Waterfall. Author Name: Shigeharu, Ryusai. . . Three Travellers before a Waterfall is an ukiyo-e woodblock print by Osaka-based late Edo period print designer Ryūsai Shigeharu (柳斎 重春) (1802–1853). It depicts a light-hearted scene of two men and one woman travelling on foot through the country-side. The print belongs to the permanent collection of the Prince Takamado Gallery of Japanese Art in the Royal Ontario Museum, Canada.. Three Travellers before a Waterfall is an ukiyo-e woodblock print by Osaka-based late Edo period print designer Ryūsai Shigeharu (柳斎 重春) (1802–1853). It depicts a light-hearted scene of two men and one woman travelling on foot through the country-side. The print belongs to the permanent collection of the Prince Takamado Gallery of Japanese Art in the Royal Ontario Museum, Canada.. 
Crab on its Back. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Crab on its Back (Dutch: Een op zijn rug liggende krab) is an 1888 oil painting by Vincent van Gogh. It is a still life of a crab lying on its back with a green background. The painting is in the permanent collection of the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam in the Netherlands.The painting is possibly inspired by a Japanese print of a crab by Hokusai that Van Gogh had seen in the magazine Le Japon Artistique, that his brother Theo van Gogh had sent him in September 1888.. Crab on its Back (Dutch: Een op zijn rug liggende krab) is an 1888 oil painting by Vincent van Gogh. It is a still life of a crab lying on its back with a green background. The painting is in the permanent collection of the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam in the Netherlands. The painting is possibly inspired by a Japanese print of a crab by Hokusai that Van Gogh had seen in the magazine Le Japon Artistique, that his brother Theo van Gogh had sent him in September 1888.. 
Christ Carrying the Cross. Author Name: Giorgione. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Christ Carrying the Cross (also Ecce Homo) is a 1505 oil painting attributed to either the Italian Renaissance master Titian or Giorgione. It is located in the Scuola Grande di San Rocco in Venice, Italy.. Christ Carrying the Cross (also Ecce Homo) is a 1505 oil painting attributed to either the Italian Renaissance master Titian or Giorgione. It is located in the Scuola Grande di San Rocco in Venice, Italy.. 
Letter Carriers' Monument. Author Name: Offner, Elliot Melville. . . The Letter Carriers' Monument is a piece of public art by American artist Elliot Offner, located on a triangular plot formed by North 2nd Street, North Plankinton Avenue and West Wells Street in downtown Milwaukee, Wisconsin, in the United States. Created in 1989, the monument depicts three letter carriers and was commissioned in celebration of the centennial of the National Association of Letter Carriers (NALC).The sculpture is well maintained.. The Letter Carriers' Monument is a piece of public art by American artist Elliot Offner, located on a triangular plot formed by North 2nd Street, North Plankinton Avenue and West Wells Street in downtown Milwaukee, Wisconsin, in the United States. Created in 1989, the monument depicts three letter carriers and was commissioned in celebration of the centennial of the National Association of Letter Carriers (NALC). The bronze sculpture depicts three figures representing letter carriers from across NALC's history: A white man with a mustache wearing a turn of the 20th century uniform (with an inscription on the jacket reading "Offner '89"); an African American man wearing a 1939 uniform (from the time of NALC's fiftieth anniversary); and a woman in a contemporary uniform. The sculpture is set on a black granite base, with the north and south faces of the base reading: "In honor of the men and women/ who have delivered for America/ in rain, sleet, and snow./ And in tribute to their Union,/ the National Association of Letter Carriers,/ founded across Plankinton Avenue/ from this site on August 30, 1889./ Dedicated August 30, 1989." The monument measures 66 x 67 x 56 inches, and was created in 1989. The sculpture is a tribute to the National Association of Letter Carriers, commissioned to celebrate the centennial of its founding. The group's history began when the United States Postal Service gave employment preference to veterans after the American Civil War. As a result, there were many veterans employed by the Postal Service across the United States. After the Postal Service administration refused to recognize the eight-hour day, a group of veteran Milwaukee postal workers organized 60 postal worker veterans from 18 states who met in a tavern on Plankinton Avenue (the building, now used for storage by Renaissance Books, formerly housed the headquarters of Manpower Inc.) on August 30, 1889, immediately following the national encampment of the Grand Army of the Republic in Milwaukee. The postal workers agreed to form the National Association of Letter Carriers, demanding an eight-hour work day, a higher pay scale, a pension plan, and service stripes for every four years of service. Elliot Offner was commissioned through the Franz Bader Gallery in New York to create the monument. He built the maquette in Cambridge, England while he was there as a visiting artist. He then worked with the Tallix Foundry in Beacon, New York to cast the sculpture. The work was sent to Milwaukee by truck from New York. Centennial celebrations lasted four days and included a parade, exhibits and the dedication of the monument by Vincent R. Sombrotto, NALC's president. More than four thousand letter carriers and their families attended the festivities. The U.S. Postal Service issued a postage stamp (designed by Jack Davis) depicting three contemporary letter carriers, to commemorate the centennial day. Buck and Palmer's 1995 Outdoor Sculpture in Milwaukee: A Cultural and Historical Guidebook observes: "The downtown Milwaukee site of the monument is correct in a historical sense, but unsuccessful in its public presence. Site considerations for the monument were overlooked and it stands on the small crowded triangle with annoying awkwardness." The sculpture is well maintained.. 
The Marriage of the Virgin. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Marriage of the Virgin, also known as Lo Sposalizio, is an oil painting by Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael. Completed in 1504 for the Franciscan church of San Francesco, Città di Castello, the painting depicts a marriage ceremony between Mary and Joseph. It changed hands several times before settling in 1806 at the Pinacoteca di Brera.. The Marriage of the Virgin, also known as Lo Sposalizio, is an oil painting by Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael. Completed in 1504 for the Franciscan church of San Francesco, Città di Castello, the painting depicts a marriage ceremony between Mary and Joseph. It changed hands several times before settling in 1806 at the Pinacoteca di Brera.. 
Shakuntala. Author Name: Ravi Varma Koil Thampuran. . . Shakuntala or Shakuntala looking for Dushyanta is an epic painting by celebrated Indian painter, Raja Ravi Varma.Ravi Varma, depicts Shakuntala, an important character of Mahabaratha, pretending to remove a thorn from her foot, while actually looking for her husband/lover, Dushyantha, while her friends call her bluff.Tapati Guha Thakurta, an art historian, wrote;. Shakuntala or Shakuntala looking for Dushyanta is an epic painting by celebrated Indian painter, Raja Ravi Varma. Ravi Varma, depicts Shakuntala, an important character of Mahabaratha, pretending to remove a thorn from her foot, while actually looking for her husband/lover, Dushyantha, while her friends call her bluff. Tapati Guha Thakurta, an art historian, wrote;. 
Last Words of the Emperor Marcus Aurelius. Author Name: Eugène Delacroix. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . The Last Words of the Emperor Marcus Aurelius is an 1844 painting by the French artist Eugène Delacroix, now in the Museum of Fine Arts of Lyon. A preliminary sketch of the painting that was given to Delacroix's student Louis de Planet is also kept in the museum.. The Last Words of the Emperor Marcus Aurelius is an 1844 painting by the French artist Eugène Delacroix, now in the Museum of Fine Arts of Lyon. A preliminary sketch of the painting that was given to Delacroix's student Louis de Planet is also kept in the museum.. 
Wish Tree for Washington, DC. Author Name: Yoko Ono. . . Wish Tree for Washington, DC is a public art work by Yoko Ono.As a part of her Imagine Peace billboard project, it was installed in the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden on April 2, 2007, during the 2007 National Cherry Blossom Festival, as one of ten in the city and is part of the museum's permanent collection.In 2010, a wish tree was installed at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City.Paper is provided for the visitor to tie a wish to the tree.The work builds on the Japanese tradition of tying prayers to trees.Returning the paper back to its source evokes an offering.. Wish Tree for Washington, DC is a public art work by Yoko Ono. As a part of her Imagine Peace billboard project, it was installed in the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden on April 2, 2007, during the 2007 National Cherry Blossom Festival, as one of ten in the city and is part of the museum's permanent collection. In 2010, a wish tree was installed at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City. Paper is provided for the visitor to tie a wish to the tree.The work builds on the Japanese tradition of tying prayers to trees. Returning the paper back to its source evokes an offering.. 
Preparing for the Matinee. Author Name: Edmund C. Tarbell. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Ten_American_Painters. . Preparing for the Matinee is an oil painting by American artist Edmund C. Tarbell, created in 1907. It is currently part of the permanent collection at the Indianapolis Museum of Art.. Preparing for the Matinee is an oil painting by American artist Edmund C. Tarbell, created in 1907. It is currently part of the permanent collection at the Indianapolis Museum of Art.. 
''Vallombrosa Altarpiece. Author Name: Pietro Perugino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Vallombrosa Altarpiece is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Pietro Perugino, dating to 1500-1501. It is housed in the Accademia Gallery of Florence, Italy.. The Vallombrosa Altarpiece is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Pietro Perugino, dating to 1500-1501. It is housed in the Accademia Gallery of Florence, Italy.. 
Gastrotypographicalassemblage. Author Name: Dorfsman, Louis. . . Gastrotypographicalassemblage is a 35 feet (11 m) wide by 8.5 feet (2.6 m) tall work of art designed by Lou Dorfsman to decorate the cafeteria in Eero Saarinen's CBS Building on 52nd Street and Sixth Avenue, New York City, New York, USA.. Gastrotypographicalassemblage is a 35 feet (11 m) wide by 8.5 feet (2.6 m) tall work of art designed by Lou Dorfsman to decorate the cafeteria in Eero Saarinen's CBS Building on 52nd Street and Sixth Avenue, New York City, New York, USA. As the senior vice president and creative director for marketing communications and design for the Columbia Broadcasting System, Dorfsman was responsible for all aspects of the building's graphics, designating the type, design and spacing for wall clocks, elevator buttons, and elevator inspection stickers. He designed what he called Gastrotypographicalassemblage for the building's cafeteria, using varied typefaces to list all of the foods offered to patrons in hand-milled wood type. The completed work was based on ideas conceived in the mid-1960s. The project was ultimately completed in 1966 with assistance from graphic designer Herb Lubalin, and Tom Carnase, who crafted the typography from Dorfsman's original design. Dorfsman considered this work to be "his magnum opus, his gift to the world". Gastrotypographicalassemblage was discarded in the early 1990s by CBS, but the work's nine panels were retrieved by designer Nick Fasciano. It was in an advanced state of disrepair, aggravated by improper storage. The piece was acquired by the Atlanta-based Center for Design Study in the mid-2000s, which developed a program to raise the funds needed to support the restoration of the work of art. Funding goals to begin the restoration fell short, and efforts to restore the work did not begin at that time. Following the death of Lou Dorfsman in 2008, it was announced that The Culinary Institute of America in Hyde Park, NY would serve as the new home for Gastrotypographicalassemblage. The college worked with Nick Fasciano to fund the restoration, and the work was put on public display for the first time starting in March 2014, when it was showcased in the Institute's new Marriott Pavilion and Conference Center, where it remains to this day.. 
Double Ascension. Author Name: Herbert Bayer. . . Double Ascension is an abstract sculpture, by Herbert Bayer.It is located at 515 South Flower Street, Los Angeles.. Double Ascension is an abstract sculpture, by Herbert Bayer.It is located at 515 South Flower Street, Los Angeles.. 
Portrait of a Man. Author Name: Antonello da Messina. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Portrait of a Man is a painting by Italian Renaissance artist Antonello da Messina, housed in the Town Museum of Pavia Lombardy, northern Italy.The picture is signed according to the Flemish habit, by directly engraving the painter's name on the parapet in the lower foreground (instead of using a false glued panel), like the Madrid portrait. Despite the sign, the strict nearness to the Flemish portrait art and the poor state of preservation have pushed some scholars to doubt about the attribution to Antonello.. Portrait of a Man is a painting by Italian Renaissance artist Antonello da Messina, housed in the Town Museum of Pavia Lombardy, northern Italy. The picture is signed according to the Flemish habit, by directly engraving the painter's name on the parapet in the lower foreground (instead of using a false glued panel), like the Madrid portrait. Despite the sign, the strict nearness to the Flemish portrait art and the poor state of preservation have pushed some scholars to doubt about the attribution to Antonello. The work has been dated to the 1460s basing on the fashion of the subject's dress and headgear.. 
Cloud Gate. Author Name: Sir Anish Kapoor. . . Cloud Gate is a public sculpture by Indian-born British artist Anish Kapoor, that is the centerpiece of AT&T Plaza at Millennium Park in the Loop community area of Chicago, Illinois. The sculpture and AT&T Plaza are located on top of Park Grill, between the Chase Promenade and McCormick Tribune Plaza & Ice Rink. Constructed between 2004 and 2006, the sculpture is nicknamed The Bean because of its shape. Made up of 168 stainless steel plates welded together, its highly polished exterior has no visible seams. It measures 33 by 66 by 42 feet (10 by 20 by 13 m), and weighs 110 short tons (100 t; 98 long tons).. Cloud Gate is a public sculpture by Indian-born British artist Anish Kapoor, that is the centerpiece of AT&T Plaza at Millennium Park in the Loop community area of Chicago, Illinois. The sculpture and AT&T Plaza are located on top of Park Grill, between the Chase Promenade and McCormick Tribune Plaza & Ice Rink. Constructed between 2004 and 2006, the sculpture is nicknamed The Bean because of its shape. Made up of 168 stainless steel plates welded together, its highly polished exterior has no visible seams. It measures 33 by 66 by 42 feet (10 by 20 by 13 m), and weighs 110 short tons (100 t; 98 long tons). Kapoor's design was inspired by liquid mercury and the sculpture's surface reflects and distorts the city's skyline. Visitors are able to walk around and under Cloud Gate's 12-foot (3.7 m) high arch. On the underside is the "omphalos" (Greek for "navel"), a concave chamber that warps and multiplies reflections. The sculpture builds upon many of Kapoor's artistic themes, and it is popular with tourists as a photo-taking opportunity for its unique reflective properties. The sculpture was the result of a design competition. After Kapoor's design was chosen, numerous technological concerns regarding the design's construction and assembly arose, in addition to concerns regarding the sculpture's upkeep and maintenance. Various experts were consulted, some of whom believed the design could not be implemented. Eventually, a feasible method was found, but the sculpture's construction fell behind schedule. It was unveiled in an incomplete form during the Millennium Park grand opening celebration in 2004, before being concealed again while it was completed. Cloud Gate was formally dedicated on May 15, 2006, and has since gained considerable popularity, both domestically and internationally.. 
The Revells of Christendome. Author Name: Cockson, Thomas. . . The Revells of Christendome is an engraving by English engraver Thomas Cockson. With image size of 21.6 x 35.5 cm and overall measure of 29.2 x 37.2 cm, it is now part of the collection of engravings in the Department of Prints and Drawings of the British Museum.. The Revells of Christendome is an engraving by English engraver Thomas Cockson. With image size of 21.6 x 35.5 cm and overall measure of 29.2 x 37.2 cm, it is now part of the collection of engravings in the Department of Prints and Drawings of the British Museum.. 
The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Nicolaes Tulp. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Nicolaes Tulp is a 1632 oil painting on canvas by Rembrandt housed in the Mauritshuis museum in The Hague, the Netherlands. Dr. Nicolaes Tulp is pictured explaining the musculature of the arm to medical professionals. Some of the spectators are various doctors who paid commissions to be included in the painting. The painting is signed in the top-left hand corner Rembrandt. f[ecit] 1632. This may be the first instance of Rembrandt signing a painting with his forename (in its original form) as opposed to the monogramme RHL (Rembrandt Harmenszoon of Leiden), and is thus a sign of his growing artistic confidence.. The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Nicolaes Tulp is a 1632 oil painting on canvas by Rembrandt housed in the Mauritshuis museum in The Hague, the Netherlands. Dr. Nicolaes Tulp is pictured explaining the musculature of the arm to medical professionals. Some of the spectators are various doctors who paid commissions to be included in the painting. The painting is signed in the top-left hand corner Rembrandt. f[ecit] 1632. This may be the first instance of Rembrandt signing a painting with his forename (in its original form) as opposed to the monogramme RHL (Rembrandt Harmenszoon of Leiden), and is thus a sign of his growing artistic confidence.. 
Madonna of the Quail. Author Name: Pisanello. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/International_Gothic. . The Madonna of the Quail (Italian: Madonna della Quaglia) is an International Gothic painting generally attributed to Pisanello. Dating to c. 1420, it was housed in the Castelvecchio Museum of Verona, northern Italy.. The Madonna of the Quail (Italian: Madonna della Quaglia) is an International Gothic painting generally attributed to Pisanello. Dating to c. 1420, it was housed in the Castelvecchio Museum of Verona, northern Italy.. 
The Big Picture. Author Name: Tom Roberts. . . The Opening of the First Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia by H.R.H. The Duke of Cornwall and York (later H.M. King George V), May 9, 1901, more commonly known in Australia as The Big Picture, is a 1903 painting by the Australian artist Tom Roberts. The painting, measuring 304.5 by 509.2 centimetres (119.9 in × 200.5 in), depicts the opening of the first Parliament of Australia at the Royal Exhibition Building in Melbourne on 9 May 1901.. The Opening of the First Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia by H.R.H. The Duke of Cornwall and York (later H.M. King George V), May 9, 1901, more commonly known in Australia as The Big Picture, is a 1903 painting by the Australian artist Tom Roberts. The painting, measuring 304.5 by 509.2 centimetres (119.9 in × 200.5 in), depicts the opening of the first Parliament of Australia at the Royal Exhibition Building in Melbourne on 9 May 1901. The painting is part of the Royal Collection but has been on permanent loan to the Parliament of Australia since 1957. The work, currently on display in Parliament House, Canberra, has been described as "undoubtedly the principal work of art recording Australia's Parliamentary History.". 
Portrait of Andrea Doria as Neptune. Author Name: Bronzino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . The Portrait of Andrea Doria as Neptune (Italian: Ritratto di Andrea Doria in veste di Nettuno) is an oil painting on canvas completed by Bronzino for a private collection in c. 1530. It depicts the Genoan admiral, Andrea Doria, in a manner reminiscent of Neptune.. The Portrait of Andrea Doria as Neptune (Italian: Ritratto di Andrea Doria in veste di Nettuno) is an oil painting on canvas completed by Bronzino for a private collection in c. 1530. It depicts the Genoan admiral, Andrea Doria, in a manner reminiscent of Neptune.. 
Modern Head. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Modern Head is the name given to four extant 31-foot tall steel sculptures by Roy Lichtenstein. It has sometimes been claimed that the artist produced Modern Head as an edition of four sculptures; however, this is incorrect.In 1989, three pieces (signed and numbered 1/2 and 2/2, together with an artist's proof) were executed in brushed stainless steel at Lippincott, Inc in North Haven, Connecticut.Piece #2 is at Yale University.In addition, there is an identical work in brass miniature that dates from 1969-1970. Known as "Untitled Head I", the piece measures 65.1 cm in height.. Modern Head is the name given to four extant 31-foot tall steel sculptures by Roy Lichtenstein. It has sometimes been claimed that the artist produced Modern Head as an edition of four sculptures; however, this is incorrect. In 1989, three pieces (signed and numbered 1/2 and 2/2, together with an artist's proof) were executed in brushed stainless steel at Lippincott, Inc in North Haven, Connecticut. Piece #1 was at one time on short-term loan (starting May 15, 1991) in Battery Park, New York City, at the South End Avenue cul-de-sac at Liberty Street. Subsequently, it was loaned to the Nassau County Museum of Art, before being dismantled and sent to Japan in 2001. It is now owned by Matsumoto Dental University in Shiojiri, Nagano, Japan. Piece #2 is at Yale University. The artist's proof was donated to the city of Jerusalem, Israel, in memory of slain Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin; it is located in Daniel Park, in the Jerusalem municipality complex next to city hall. A fourth piece, issued as a later "one off" by the artist, was painted blue. The James Goodman Gallery in New York lent it to New York City, where it was installed in Battery Park in January 1996 near the site where piece #1 once stood. This work remained undamaged from the September 11 attacks of 2001, despite being only a block away, and was reportedly used as a message board by the Federal Bureau of Investigation during its investigation of the attacks. It was later moved to the Fairchild Tropical Botanic Garden, and was acquired by Jeffrey H. Loria, who donated it to the Smithsonian Institution. Presently, this piece is located at the south side of the Smithsonian American Art Museum, Northwest, Washington, D.C., where it was installed on August 27, 2008. An untitled earlier version of the work, constructed of wood, polyester and metal, and also painted blue, was installed at the Santa Anna Fashion Park in Arcadia, California, in 1974. The work remained there until October 1988, after which it was destroyed. In addition, there is an identical work in brass miniature that dates from 1969-1970. Known as "Untitled Head I", the piece measures 65.1 cm in height. In exploring the abstract "Modern Head" theme, Lichtenstein also produced similarly-titled works in other media and materials, including lithograph, woodcut, line-cut embossing, embossed graphite, and metal.. 
The Gleaners. Author Name: Jean-François Millet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Gleaners (Des glaneuses) is an oil painting by Jean-François Millet completed in 1857. It depicts three peasant women gleaning a field of stray grains of wheat after the harvest. The painting is famous for featuring in a sympathetic way what were then the lowest ranks of rural society; this was received poorly by the French upper classes.. The Gleaners (Des glaneuses) is an oil painting by Jean-François Millet completed in 1857. It depicts three peasant women gleaning a field of stray grains of wheat after the harvest. The painting is famous for featuring in a sympathetic way what were then the lowest ranks of rural society; this was received poorly by the French upper classes.. 
Madonna of the Milk. Author Name: Andrea del Verrocchio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The The Virgin and Child with Two Angels (Italian, sometimes: Madonna del Latte) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Andrea del Verrocchio, dating from circa 1467–1469. It is in the National Gallery, London, United Kingdom.. The The Virgin and Child with Two Angels (Italian, sometimes: Madonna del Latte) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Andrea del Verrocchio, dating from circa 1467–1469. It is in the National Gallery, London, United Kingdom.. 
Resurrection of Christ. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Resurrection of Christ (1499–1502), also called The Kinnaird Resurrection (after a former owner of the painting, Lord Kinnaird), is an oil painting on wood by the Italian High Renaissance master Raphael. The work is one of the earliest known paintings by the artist, executed between 1499 and 1502. It is probably a piece of an unknown predella, though it has been suggested that the painting could be one of the remaining works of the Baronci altarpiece, Raphael's first recorded commission (seriously damaged by an earthquake in 1789, fragments of which are today found in museums across Europe). The painting is housed in the São Paulo Museum of Art.. The Resurrection of Christ (1499–1502), also called The Kinnaird Resurrection (after a former owner of the painting, Lord Kinnaird), is an oil painting on wood by the Italian High Renaissance master Raphael. The work is one of the earliest known paintings by the artist, executed between 1499 and 1502. It is probably a piece of an unknown predella, though it has been suggested that the painting could be one of the remaining works of the Baronci altarpiece, Raphael's first recorded commission (seriously damaged by an earthquake in 1789, fragments of which are today found in museums across Europe). The painting is housed in the São Paulo Museum of Art. The Kinnaird Resurrection is one of the first preserved works of Raphael in which his natural dramatic style of composition was already obvious, as opposed to the gentle poetic style of his master, Pietro Perugino. The extremely rational composition is ruled by a complex ideal geometry which interlinks all the elements of the scene and gives it a strange animated rhythm, transforming the characters in the painting into co-protagonists in a unique "choreography". The painting possesses an esthetic influence from Pinturicchio and Melozzo da Forlì, though the spatial orchestration of the work, with its tendency to movement, shows Raphael's knowledge of the Florentine artistic milieu of the 16th century. The work was acquired by the São Paulo Museum of Art in 1954. Pietro Maria Bardi, former director of the museum, took the responsibility of adding the Kinnaird Resurrection to the body of works of Raphael, based on the existence of two preparatory studies for the composition, starting a heated debate about its authorship. Nowadays, the reference to Raphael is almost unanimously accepted by experts. It is the only work by that artist currently housed in the Southern Hemisphere.. 
Diana and Callisto. Author Name: Titian. . . Diana and Callisto is a painting completed between 1556 and 1559 by the Venetian artist Titian. It portrays the moment in which the goddess Diana discovers that her maid Callisto has become pregnant by Jupiter. The painting was jointly purchased by the National Gallery and the National Galleries of Scotland for £45 million in March 2012. The painting is currently on display at the National Gallery in London. There is a later version by Titian and his workshop in the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna.. Diana and Callisto is a painting completed between 1556 and 1559 by the Venetian artist Titian. It portrays the moment in which the goddess Diana discovers that her maid Callisto has become pregnant by Jupiter. The painting was jointly purchased by the National Gallery and the National Galleries of Scotland for £45 million in March 2012. The painting is currently on display at the National Gallery in London. There is a later version by Titian and his workshop in the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna.. 
Found. Author Name: Dante Gabriel Rossetti. . . Found is an unfinished oil painting by Dante Gabriel Rossetti, now in the Delaware Art Museum. The painting is Rossetti's only treatment in oil of a contemporary moral subject, urban prostitution, and although the work remained incomplete at Rossetti's death in 1882, he always considered it one of his most important works, returning to it many times from the mid-1850s until the year before his death.. Found is an unfinished oil painting by Dante Gabriel Rossetti, now in the Delaware Art Museum. The painting is Rossetti's only treatment in oil of a contemporary moral subject, urban prostitution, and although the work remained incomplete at Rossetti's death in 1882, he always considered it one of his most important works, returning to it many times from the mid-1850s until the year before his death.. 
Healing of Abiku Children. Author Name: Seven-Seven, Prince Twins. . . Healing of Abiku Children is a piece created by the Nigerian artist Twins Seven-Seven in 1973, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States of America. It consists of a large wooden plaque intricately carved and dyed with pigment to depict an important Yoruba ceremony. In it, a mother consults with a priest to keep her abiku twins in this world, rather than dying and being reborn to her over and over.. Healing of Abiku Children is a piece created by the Nigerian artist Twins Seven-Seven in 1973, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States of America. It consists of a large wooden plaque intricately carved and dyed with pigment to depict an important Yoruba ceremony. In it, a mother consults with a priest to keep her abiku twins in this world, rather than dying and being reborn to her over and over.. 
Le Bateau. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . Le Bateau ("The Boat") is a paper-cut from 1953 by Henri Matisse. The picture is composed from pieces of paper cut out of sheets painted with gouache, and was created during the last years of Matisse's life.. Le Bateau ("The Boat") is a paper-cut from 1953 by Henri Matisse. The picture is composed from pieces of paper cut out of sheets painted with gouache, and was created during the last years of Matisse's life.. 
Verity. Author Name: Damien Hirst. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Young_British_Artists. . Verity is a stainless steel and bronze statue created by Damien Hirst. The 20.25-metre (66.4 ft) tall sculpture stands on the pier at the entrance to the harbour in Ilfracombe, Devon, looking out over the Bristol Channel towards South Wales. It has been loaned to the town for 20 years. The name of the piece refers to "truth" and Hirst describes his work as a "modern allegory of truth and justice".Hirst, who lives in Ilfracombe, has loaned the statue to the town for 20 years starting from its erection on 16 October 2012.. Verity is a stainless steel and bronze statue created by Damien Hirst. The 20.25-metre (66.4 ft) tall sculpture stands on the pier at the entrance to the harbour in Ilfracombe, Devon, looking out over the Bristol Channel towards South Wales. It has been loaned to the town for 20 years. The name of the piece refers to "truth" and Hirst describes his work as a "modern allegory of truth and justice". The statue depicts a pregnant woman holding aloft a sword while carrying the scales of justice and standing on a pile of law books. Half of the sculpture shows the internal anatomy of the pregnant woman, with the foetus clearly visible. The stance has been described as a reference to Little Dancer of Fourteen Years by Edgar Degas, a work that previously inspired Hirst when he created Virgin Mother. The sculpture was cast in stainless steel and bronze in 40 separate sections by Pangolin Editions. The sword, which gives the statue much of its height, and the upper left arm is one polymer-strengthened fibre glass piece. Before being cleared for erection the statue was subjected to tests in a wind tunnel to ensure that it could cope with high winds and spray from the sea. Measuring 25cm (10 inches) higher than the Angel of the North, Verity became the tallest statue in the UK when it was put into place. Members of North Devon Council referred to the controversial nature of the statue as a potential boost to tourism. Local reaction was very mixed, with those critical of the work calling it "ugly" and stating that "it isn't suitable for a Victorian seaside town". Before they allowed planning permission the council received 100 letters from people who objected to the installation of the statue, and 177 letters supporting the application. In August 2013 councillors announced that the statue had a "tremendous effect" with people visiting the town solely to see Hirst's work. Hirst, who lives in Ilfracombe, has loaned the statue to the town for 20 years starting from its erection on 16 October 2012.. 
The Waterseller of Seville. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Events from the year 1618 in art.. Events from the year 1618 in art.. 
West Wyalong. Author Name: Sir Russell Drysdale. . . West Wyalong is a 1949 painting by Australian artist Russell Drysdale. The painting depicts the main street of the New South Wales town of West Wyalong, with its characteristic bend. Curator of the Art Gallery of New South Wales, Barry Pearce, stated that it was one of Australia's ten greatest paintings.The painting was conceived when Drysdale accompanied his friend—the barrister, and later Justice John Nagel—on a trip to West Wyalong.. West Wyalong is a 1949 painting by Australian artist Russell Drysdale. The painting depicts the main street of the New South Wales town of West Wyalong, with its characteristic bend. Curator of the Art Gallery of New South Wales, Barry Pearce, stated that it was one of Australia's ten greatest paintings. The painting was conceived when Drysdale accompanied his friend—the barrister, and later Justice John Nagel—on a trip to West Wyalong. Drysdale painted the work at his family home in Rose Bay, a harbourside neighbourhood of Sydney. Drysdale's daughter recalled how, as children, she and her brother had been allowed to play around it while he was working on it. A report accompanying an exhibition of his work stated that "Drysdale applied several layers of paint and glaze to render the details with utmost care: the architectural features, cast-iron balconies and posts, the Italianate shopfronts, the blinds lowered against the setting sun". The painting was once owned by merchant John Landau. Landau allowed the work to be displayed at the Art Gallery of New South Wales until 1996 when his widow Joyce sold the artwork. It was purchased by television executive Reg Grundy and Joy Chambers-Grundy, who retained ownership until at least 2014. The work was hung in the Grundy's London penthouse for around 15 years. The Art Gallery of New South Wales attempted to purchase the painting at the time but were outbid with the painting selling for "nearly one million dollars". The Curator of the gallery at the time, Barry Pearce, said that it was "the most broken hearted I have been about missing out on a masterpiece." Bland Shire commissioned a bronze and stainless steel bas-relief sculpture commemorating Drysdale's work. The sculpture—sited outside the Tattersalls Hotel in West Wyalong—was unveiled in February 2014.. 
Salmon Gargoyle. Author Name: Wayne Chabre. . . Salmon Gargoyle is an outdoor 1987 sculpture by Wayne Chabre, installed in 1988 on the University of Oregon campus in Eugene, Oregon, in the United States. The hammered copper head of a salmon with Kwakiutl Indian representation on its sides, built on a stainless steel frame, measures approximately 5 feet (1.5 m) x 3 feet (0.91 m) x 8.5 feet (2.6 m). It was surveyed and deemed "treatment needed" by the Smithsonian Institution's "Save Outdoor Sculpture!" program in March 1993. The sculpture is administered by the University of Oregon.. Salmon Gargoyle is an outdoor 1987 sculpture by Wayne Chabre, installed in 1988 on the University of Oregon campus in Eugene, Oregon, in the United States. The hammered copper head of a salmon with Kwakiutl Indian representation on its sides, built on a stainless steel frame, measures approximately 5 feet (1.5 m) x 3 feet (0.91 m) x 8.5 feet (2.6 m). It was surveyed and deemed "treatment needed" by the Smithsonian Institution's "Save Outdoor Sculpture!" program in March 1993. The sculpture is administered by the University of Oregon.. 
Il figliol prodigo. Author Name: Giorgio de Chirico. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Metaphysical_art. . The Prodigal Son (Italian: Il figliol prodigo) is a painting by the Greek-born Italian artist Giorgio de Chirico. It is painted in tempera on canvas and was completed in 1922 as de Chirico was in transition from the Metaphysical style of his earlier works to the neoclassicism he essayed in the 1920s. The biblical subject matter is interpreted by de Chirico as a stone effigy of a father placing his hand on the shoulder of a mannequin representing the son. The dimensions of the painting are 87 by 59 centimeters. It is housed at Galleria d'Arte Moderna, Milan, Italy.. The Prodigal Son (Italian: Il figliol prodigo) is a painting by the Greek-born Italian artist Giorgio de Chirico. It is painted in tempera on canvas and was completed in 1922 as de Chirico was in transition from the Metaphysical style of his earlier works to the neoclassicism he essayed in the 1920s. The biblical subject matter is interpreted by de Chirico as a stone effigy of a father placing his hand on the shoulder of a mannequin representing the son. The dimensions of the painting are 87 by 59 centimeters. It is housed at Galleria d'Arte Moderna, Milan, Italy.. 
Manga. Author Name: Hokusai. . . The Hokusai Manga (北斎漫画, "Hokusai's Sketches") is a collection of sketches of various subjects by the Japanese artist Hokusai. Subjects of the sketches include landscapes, flora and fauna, everyday life and the supernatural. The word manga in the title does not refer to the contemporary story-telling manga, as the sketches in the work are not connected to each other. Block-printed in three colours (black, gray and pale flesh), the Manga comprise literally thousands of images in 15 volumes, the first published in 1814, when the artist was 55. The final three volumes were published posthumously, two of them assembled by their publisher from previously unpublished material. The final volume was made up of previously published works, some not even by Hokusai, and is not considered authentic by. The Hokusai Manga (北斎漫画, "Hokusai's Sketches") is a collection of sketches of various subjects by the Japanese artist Hokusai. Subjects of the sketches include landscapes, flora and fauna, everyday life and the supernatural. The word manga in the title does not refer to the contemporary story-telling manga, as the sketches in the work are not connected to each other. Block-printed in three colours (black, gray and pale flesh), the Manga comprise literally thousands of images in 15 volumes, the first published in 1814, when the artist was 55. The final three volumes were published posthumously, two of them assembled by their publisher from previously unpublished material. The final volume was made up of previously published works, some not even by Hokusai, and is not considered authentic by art historians.. 
Manfred on the Jungfrau. Author Name: John Martin. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . Manfred On The Jungfrau is an 1837 watercolour painting by the English artist John Martin, now in Birmingham Museum and Art Gallery. The subject of the painting comes from Lord Byron's poem Manfred, specifically Act I scene II. It was painted by a number of 19th-century artists.. Manfred On The Jungfrau is an 1837 watercolour painting by the English artist John Martin, now in Birmingham Museum and Art Gallery. The subject of the painting comes from Lord Byron's poem Manfred, specifically Act I scene II. It was painted by a number of 19th-century artists.. 
Monsoon Drift. Author Name: Sir Anthony Caro. . Author Movement: Constructed steel sculpture, abstract art, modernism. . Monsoon Drift is an abstract steel sculpture, by Anthony Caro.It is in the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.In 1973, he salvaged rolled steel material, at the Consett steel mills, County Durham.. Monsoon Drift is an abstract steel sculpture, by Anthony Caro. It is in the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. In 1973, he salvaged rolled steel material, at the Consett steel mills, County Durham.. 
The Last of the Spartans. Author Name: Gaetano Trentanove. . . The Last of the Spartans is a sculpture by Italian and American artist Gaetano Trentanove displayed at the Milwaukee Art Museum in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The white marble figurative sculpture depicts a fallen soldier. The depiction of the figure is highly detailed and realistic. The work was originally exhibited at the World's Columbian Exposition in 1893.. The Last of the Spartans is a sculpture by Italian and American artist Gaetano Trentanove displayed at the Milwaukee Art Museum in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The white marble figurative sculpture depicts a fallen soldier. The depiction of the figure is highly detailed and realistic. The work was originally exhibited at the World's Columbian Exposition in 1893.. 
Sylvette. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Sylvette is the title of a portrait painting by Pablo Picasso, featuring a young woman with a pony tail. The model for the painting, Lydia Sylvette David, also known by her married name Lydia Corbett, was a French woman who, during the summer of 1953, worked in a pottery studio near Picasso's studio in Vallauris. Finding her appearance appealing, Picasso created 40 works inspired by her. Sylvette's portrait from 2 May 1954 is one of the last of a long series. Picasso's grandson Olivier Widmaier Picasso told the Chicago Sun-Times in 2004 that Sylvette was also the subject of the monumental Chicago Picasso, which had been a matter of curiosity since it was unveiled. She was said to have been an inspiration for actress Brigitte Bardot and the Roger Vadim film And God Created Woman. In 1998 Ba. Sylvette is the title of a portrait painting by Pablo Picasso, featuring a young woman with a pony tail. The model for the painting, Lydia Sylvette David, also known by her married name Lydia Corbett, was a French woman who, during the summer of 1953, worked in a pottery studio near Picasso's studio in Vallauris. Finding her appearance appealing, Picasso created 40 works inspired by her. Sylvette's portrait from 2 May 1954 is one of the last of a long series. Picasso's grandson Olivier Widmaier Picasso told the Chicago Sun-Times in 2004 that Sylvette was also the subject of the monumental Chicago Picasso, which had been a matter of curiosity since it was unveiled. She was said to have been an inspiration for actress Brigitte Bardot and the Roger Vadim film And God Created Woman. In 1998 Barron's published Picasso and the Girl With a Ponytail by Laurence Anholt—a children's book in which a shy teenager named Sylvette meets Picasso in Vallauris and becomes his model. Lydia is now an artist in her own right. Galleries exhibiting her work include Fosse Gallery Fine Art, with one exhibition being aptly named 'The Girl With the Ponytail'.. 
The Morrison Triptych. Author Name: Breitenbach, Thomas E.. . . The Jim Morrison Triptych is an oil painting by American artist T. E. Breitenbach (best known for his painting Proverbidioms). It is a so-called "lost" collaboration with Jim Morrison of The Doors, intended for use on Morrison's An American Prayer album, and completed shortly before Morrison's death.. The Jim Morrison Triptych is an oil painting by American artist T. E. Breitenbach (best known for his painting Proverbidioms). It is a so-called "lost" collaboration with Jim Morrison of The Doors, intended for use on Morrison's An American Prayer album, and completed shortly before Morrison's death.. 
Three-Piece No. 3: Vertebrae. Author Name: Henry Moore. . Author Movement: Bronze Sculpture, Modernism. . Three-Piece No. 3: Vertebrae (Working Model) is a sculpture by Henry Moore.. Three-Piece No. 3: Vertebrae (Working Model) is a sculpture by Henry Moore.. 
The Declaration of Independence. Author Name: John Trumbull. . . John Trumbull's Declaration of Independence is a 12-by-18-foot (3.7 by 5.5 m) oil-on-canvas painting in the United States Capitol Rotunda that depicts the presentation of the draft of the Declaration of Independence to Congress. It was based on a much smaller version of the same scene, presently held by the Yale University Art Gallery. Trumbull painted many of the figures in the picture from life and visited Independence Hall as well to depict the chamber where the Second Continental Congress met. The oil-on-canvas work was commissioned in 1817, purchased in 1819, and placed in the rotunda in 1826.. John Trumbull's Declaration of Independence is a 12-by-18-foot (3.7 by 5.5 m) oil-on-canvas painting in the United States Capitol Rotunda that depicts the presentation of the draft of the Declaration of Independence to Congress. It was based on a much smaller version of the same scene, presently held by the Yale University Art Gallery. Trumbull painted many of the figures in the picture from life and visited Independence Hall as well to depict the chamber where the Second Continental Congress met. The oil-on-canvas work was commissioned in 1817, purchased in 1819, and placed in the rotunda in 1826. The painting is sometimes incorrectly described as the signing of the Declaration of Independence. In fact, the painting actually shows the five-man drafting committee presenting their draft of the Declaration to the Congress, an event that took place on June 28, 1776, and not the signing of the document, which took place later. The painting shows 42 of the 56 signers of the Declaration; Trumbull originally intended to include all 56 signers, but was unable to obtain likenesses for all of them. He also decided to depict several participants in the debate who did not sign the document, including John Dickinson, who declined to sign. Trumbull also had no portrait of Benjamin Harrison V to work with; son Benjamin Harrison VI was said to have resembled his father, so he was painted instead. Because the Declaration was debated and signed over a period of time when membership in Congress changed, the men in the painting had never all been in the same room at the same time. Thomas Jefferson seems to be stepping on the foot of John Adams in the painting, which many think is supposed to symbolize their relationship as political enemies. However, upon closer examination of the painting, it can be seen that their feet are merely close together. This part of the image was correctly depicted on the two-dollar bill version.. 
Alamo. Author Name: Rosenthal, Bernard. . Author Movement: American abstract expressionism. . Alamo, also known as the Astor Place Cube or simply The Cube, is an outdoor sculpture by Bernard (Tony) Rosenthal, located on Astor Place, in the East Village, Manhattan, New York City. It takes the form of a black cube, 8 feet (2.4 m) long on each side, mounted on a corner. The cube is made of Cor-Ten steel and weighs about 1,800 pounds (820 kg). The faces of the cube are not flat but have various indentations, protrusions, and ledges. The sculpture's name, Alamo, is designated on a small plaque on one corner of the base and was selected by the artist's wife because its scale and mass reminded her of the Alamo Mission.. Alamo, also known as the Astor Place Cube or simply The Cube, is an outdoor sculpture by Bernard (Tony) Rosenthal, located on Astor Place, in the East Village, Manhattan, New York City. It takes the form of a black cube, 8 feet (2.4 m) long on each side, mounted on a corner. The cube is made of Cor-Ten steel and weighs about 1,800 pounds (820 kg). The faces of the cube are not flat but have various indentations, protrusions, and ledges. The sculpture's name, Alamo, is designated on a small plaque on one corner of the base and was selected by the artist's wife because its scale and mass reminded her of the Alamo Mission.. 
I Can See the Whole Room...and There's Nobody in It!. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . I Can See the Whole Room...and There's Nobody in It! (sometimes I Can See the Whole Room and There's Nobody in It! or simply I Can See the Whole Room!) is a 1961 painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It is a painting of a man looking through a peephole. It formerly held the record for highest auction price for a Lichtenstein painting.. I Can See the Whole Room...and There's Nobody in It! (sometimes I Can See the Whole Room and There's Nobody in It! or simply I Can See the Whole Room!) is a 1961 painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It is a painting of a man looking through a peephole. It formerly held the record for highest auction price for a Lichtenstein painting. The work is based on a William Overgard-drawn comics panel from a Steve Roper cartoon. Lichtenstein's derivation augments the presentation of the narrative and expands the use of color in the image. As with the original the image employs the theme of vision, and focuses specifically on mechanized vision as well as monocularity.. 
Gulgardi. Author Name: Kaapa Mbitjana Tjampitjinpa. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Contemporary_Indigenous_Australian_art. . Gulgardi is a 1971 painting by Kaapa Mbitjana Tjampitjinpa, an Indigenous Australian artist from Papunya in Australia's Northern Territory. It is notable for being the first work by an Indigenous Australian artist to win a contemporary art award, and the first public recognition of a Papunya painting.. Gulgardi is a 1971 painting by Kaapa Mbitjana Tjampitjinpa, an Indigenous Australian artist from Papunya in Australia's Northern Territory. It is notable for being the first work by an Indigenous Australian artist to win a contemporary art award, and the first public recognition of a Papunya painting.. 
Adoration of the Child. Author Name: Gentile da Fabriano. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/International_Gothic. . The Adoration of the Child is an tempera and gold on panel painting by the Italian late medieval artist Gentile da Fabriano, dating from around 1420–1421 and housed in the Getty Center of Los Angeles, USA.. The Adoration of the Child is an tempera and gold on panel painting by the Italian late medieval artist Gentile da Fabriano, dating from around 1420–1421 and housed in the Getty Center of Los Angeles, USA. The work is generally dated from between Gentile's quick stay in his hometown, Fabriano, in the Spring of 1420, and his arrival to Florence in the following summer. There are indeed similarities with the female faces in the Adoration of the Magi, although the presence of copies by local followers in the Marche and Dalmatia could imply that the painting was at some location in the Adriatic Sea area.. 
The Channel of Gravelines, Petit Fort Philippe. Author Name: Georges Seurat. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neo-impressionism. . The Channel of Gravelines, Petit Fort Philippe is a pointillist painting by French artist Georges Seurat, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. Painted in 1890, the year before his death, it depicts a harbor in the small French port of Gravelines. Described as "wistful and poetic," it is one of the treasures of the IMA.. The Channel of Gravelines, Petit Fort Philippe is a pointillist painting by French artist Georges Seurat, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. Painted in 1890, the year before his death, it depicts a harbor in the small French port of Gravelines. Described as "wistful and poetic," it is one of the treasures of the IMA.. 
The Last of England. Author Name: Ford Madox Brown. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pre-Raphaelite_Brotherhood. . The Last of England is an 1855 oil-on-panel painting by Ford Madox Brown depicting two emigrants leaving England to start a new life in Australia.. The Last of England is an 1855 oil-on-panel painting by Ford Madox Brown depicting two emigrants leaving England to start a new life in Australia.. 
Tidying Up. Author Name: Isabel Bishop. . . Tidying Up is an oil painting by American artist Isabel Bishop. It is currently in the permanent collection at the Indianapolis Museum of Art.. Tidying Up is an oil painting by American artist Isabel Bishop. It is currently in the permanent collection at the Indianapolis Museum of Art.. 
Portrait of Père Tanguy, final version. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Portrait of Père Tanguy, painted by Vincent van Gogh in 1887, is one of his three paintings of Julien Tanguy. The three works demonstrate a progression in Van Gogh's artistic style after his arrival in Paris. The first is somber, and formed from a simple composition. The second introduces Van Gogh's Japanese prints. The last and most advanced in style, skill and color integrates Japanese, Impressionist, and other influences on the Parisian artist community. This painting conveys a sense of serenity that Van Gogh seeks for himself. This last painting of Tanguy is in the Musée Rodin, Paris.. Portrait of Père Tanguy, painted by Vincent van Gogh in 1887, is one of his three paintings of Julien Tanguy. The three works demonstrate a progression in Van Gogh's artistic style after his arrival in Paris. The first is somber, and formed from a simple composition. The second introduces Van Gogh's Japanese prints. The last and most advanced in style, skill and color integrates Japanese, Impressionist, and other influences on the Parisian artist community. This painting conveys a sense of serenity that Van Gogh seeks for himself. This last painting of Tanguy is in the Musée Rodin, Paris.. 
The Harlequin's Carnival. Author Name: Joan Miró. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . The Harlequin's Carnival is an oil painting rendered by Joan Miró between 1940 and 1941. It is one of the most outstanding surrealist paintings of the artist, and it's preserved in the Albright–Knox Art Gallery, Buffalo.. The Harlequin's Carnival is an oil painting rendered by Joan Miró between 1940 and 1941. It is one of the most outstanding surrealist paintings of the artist, and it's preserved in the Albright–Knox Art Gallery, Buffalo.. 
San Francesco al Prato Resurrection. Author Name: Pietro Perugino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The San Francesco al Prato Resurrection is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Pietro Perugino, dating to c. 1499. It is housed in the Pinacoteca Vaticana, Rome.. The San Francesco al Prato Resurrection is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Pietro Perugino, dating to c. 1499. It is housed in the Pinacoteca Vaticana, Rome.. 
Les Trois Grâces. Author Name: Niki de Saint Phalle. . . Les Trois Grâces is a set of three public artworks by French sculptor Niki de Saint Phalle. The Three Graces are part of the National Museum of Women in the Arts New York Avenue Sculpture Project.. Les Trois Grâces is a set of three public artworks by French sculptor Niki de Saint Phalle. The Three Graces are part of the National Museum of Women in the Arts New York Avenue Sculpture Project.. 
Medal of John VIII Palaeologus. Author Name: Pisanello. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/International_Gothic. . The medal of John VIII Palaeologus is a portrait medal by the Italian Renaissance artist Pisanello. It is generally considered to be the first portrait medal of the Renaissance. On the obverse of the medal is a profile portrait of the penultimate Byzantine emperor, John VIII Palaeologus; the reverse contains an image of the emperor on horseback before a wayside cross. Although the date of the work is not clear it was likely to have been some time during 1438 and 1439, the years John was in Italy attending the Council of Ferrara (later moved to Florence). It is not known whether the emperor himself or his Italian hosts commissioned Pisanello to make the medal, but Leonello d’Este, the heir apparent to the marquisate of Ferrara, has been suggested as the most likely candidate. Several drawin. The medal of John VIII Palaeologus is a portrait medal by the Italian Renaissance artist Pisanello. It is generally considered to be the first portrait medal of the Renaissance. On the obverse of the medal is a profile portrait of the penultimate Byzantine emperor, John VIII Palaeologus; the reverse contains an image of the emperor on horseback before a wayside cross. Although the date of the work is not clear it was likely to have been some time during 1438 and 1439, the years John was in Italy attending the Council of Ferrara (later moved to Florence). It is not known whether the emperor himself or his Italian hosts commissioned Pisanello to make the medal, but Leonello d’Este, the heir apparent to the marquisate of Ferrara, has been suggested as the most likely candidate. Several drawings by Pisanello are closely associated with the medal and these include sketches now held in Paris and Chicago. Its impact on subsequent art was significant: it extended beyond numismatics and the proliferation of outstanding Renaissance medals to influence sculpture and painting. Renaissance artists subsequently used Pisanello's portrait of John almost as a stock type to represent exotic or antique figures. This can be seen in the work of Piero della Francesca who used the image of John in his Flagellation of Christ and Arezzo frescoes.. 
The Palace at 4 a.m.. Author Name: Alberto Giacometti. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The Palace at 4 a.m. is a 1932 surrealist sculpture by Alberto Giacometti. It is in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art.Giacometti said the work relates to "a period of six months passed in the presence of a woman who, concentrating all life in herself, transported my every moment into a state of enchantment. We constructed a fantastical palace in the night—a very fragile palace of matches. At the least false movement a whole section would collapse. We always began it again.". The Palace at 4 a.m. is a 1932 surrealist sculpture by Alberto Giacometti. It is in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art. Giacometti said the work relates to "a period of six months passed in the presence of a woman who, concentrating all life in herself, transported my every moment into a state of enchantment. We constructed a fantastical palace in the night—a very fragile palace of matches. At the least false movement a whole section would collapse. We always began it again.". 
''. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Memory of the Garden at Etten (Ladies of Arles) is an oil painting by Vincent van Gogh. It was executed in Arles around November 1888 and is in the collection of the Hermitage Museum. It was intended as decoration for his bedroom at the Yellow House.Vincent subsequently painted in Drenthe, Nuenen (his last family home), and Antwerp, before joining Theo in Paris in 1886, Finally he set up a studio in 1888 at the Yellow House in Arles, where he was joined by Paul Gauguin, with the intention of forming an artists' commune.. Memory of the Garden at Etten (Ladies of Arles) is an oil painting by Vincent van Gogh. It was executed in Arles around November 1888 and is in the collection of the Hermitage Museum. It was intended as decoration for his bedroom at the Yellow House. The "Garden at Etten" refers to the parsonage garden at Etten (now Etten-Leur) where Vincent's father Theodorus van Gogh, a pastor, had been called in 1875. Vincent spent periods of time there, notably from Easter to Christmas 1881 when he returned to join his brother Theo, an art dealer, determined to become an artist. This period at Etten represents the beginning proper of Vincent's ten-year career as an artist. He had drawn since boyhood, and the previous year had enrolled in a beginners' class in Brussels where he met the painter Anthon van Rappard, but he now began to draw in earnest. He rapidly developed an accomplished technique in landscape drawing but remained rather more uncertain in his figure drawing, which he practised assiduously with the aid of Charles Bargue's drawing course. Rappard made a twelve-day visit during this time, and they sketched together in the marshes and heaths round Etten. Vincent also visited his cousin-in-law Anton Mauve in The Hague, a celebrated artist of the time, who had expressed an interest in his drawings and who encouraged him further. At this time Vincent had not progressed as far as painting, though he did wash some of his drawings with watercolor. At the end of the year he made an extended visit to Mauve, who introduced him to painting. He returned to Etten with the intention of setting up a studio there. That summer Vincent had become infatuated with his recently widowed cousin Kee Vos-Stricker, daughter of the theologian Johannes Stricker, who had been invited to stay over the summer with her eight-year-old son Jan. Vincent had last visited her in Amsterdam some three years before while her husband was still alive (there is a family photo extant dating from 1872 thought to show Vincent side by side with Kee), but now her new situation stirred his tender feelings and romantic disposition. They took pleasant walks together and within the fortnight Vincent proposed marriage. She famously rebuffed him with a curt "No, at no time, never", abruptly taking her leave for Amsterdam and never dealing with him again. Vincent's obsessive attempts to press his suit eventually became a matter of family scandal, culminating in a bitter quarrel with his father on Christmas Day and his leaving the family home to set up his proposed studio in The Hague instead. Vincent subsequently painted in Drenthe, Nuenen (his last family home), and Antwerp, before joining Theo in Paris in 1886, Finally he set up a studio in 1888 at the Yellow House in Arles, where he was joined by Paul Gauguin, with the intention of forming an artists' commune.. 
Brattata. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Brattata is a 1962 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein in his comic book style of using Ben-Day dots and a text balloon. The work is held in the collection at the Tehran Museum of Contemporary Art. It is one of several Lichtenstein works from All-American Men of War issue #89, but is a reworking of its source panel.. Brattata is a 1962 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein in his comic book style of using Ben-Day dots and a text balloon. The work is held in the collection at the Tehran Museum of Contemporary Art. It is one of several Lichtenstein works from All-American Men of War issue #89, but is a reworking of its source panel.. 
The Denial of Saint Peter. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Denial of Peter is a 1660 painting by Rembrandt, now in the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam.Rembrandt never made a journey to Italy, as many of his contemporaries did. It is therefore thought that his treatment of themes such as the Denial derived substantially from prints based on foreign works. In this case there are two engravings, both based on paintings by Gerard Seghers, which are implicated in Rembrandt's Denial. The first is by Schelte a Bolswert, the second an engraving by one A. de Paullis.. The Denial of Peter is a 1660 painting by Rembrandt, now in the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam. Rembrandt never made a journey to Italy, as many of his contemporaries did. It is therefore thought that his treatment of themes such as the Denial derived substantially from prints based on foreign works. In this case there are two engravings, both based on paintings by Gerard Seghers, which are implicated in Rembrandt's Denial. The first is by Schelte a Bolswert, the second an engraving by one A. de Paullis.. 
Graft. Author Name: Roxy Paine. . . Graft is a sculpture by Roxy Paine. It was installed on October 26–30 2008, in the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden.It is part of a "Dendroids" series begun in 1998. Made of Stainless steel, it weighs 16,000 pounds.. Graft is a sculpture by Roxy Paine. It was installed on October 26–30 2008, in the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden. It is part of a "Dendroids" series begun in 1998. Made of Stainless steel, it weighs 16,000 pounds.. 
Salisbury Cathedral from the Meadows. Author Name: John Constable. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . Salisbury Cathedral from the Meadows was painted by John Constable in 1831, one year after the death of his wife, Maria. It is currently on display at the National Museum Wales, Cardiff, on loan from the Tate Gallery, London. He later added nine lines from “The Seasons” by the eighteenth-century poet James Thomson that reveal the painting's meaning: That the rainbow is a symbol of hope after a storm that follows on the death of the young Amelia in the arms of her lover Celadon. Constable exhibited this painting at the Royal Academy in 1831, but continued working on it during 1833 and 1834.. Salisbury Cathedral from the Meadows was painted by John Constable in 1831, one year after the death of his wife, Maria. It is currently on display at the National Museum Wales, Cardiff, on loan from the Tate Gallery, London. He later added nine lines from “The Seasons” by the eighteenth-century poet James Thomson that reveal the painting's meaning: That the rainbow is a symbol of hope after a storm that follows on the death of the young Amelia in the arms of her lover Celadon. Constable exhibited this painting at the Royal Academy in 1831, but continued working on it during 1833 and 1834.. 
St. John the Baptist. Author Name: Leonardo da Vinci. . . St. John the Baptist is a High Renaissance oil painting on walnut wood by Leonardo da Vinci. Probably completed from 1513 to 1516, it is believed to be his final painting and is now exhibited at the Musée du Louvre in Paris, France.. St. John the Baptist is a High Renaissance oil painting on walnut wood by Leonardo da Vinci. Probably completed from 1513 to 1516, it is believed to be his final painting and is now exhibited at the Musée du Louvre in Paris, France.. 
The Rest on the Flight to Egypt with Saint Francis. Author Name: Antonio da Correggio. . Author Movement: Mannerism. . The Rest on the Flight to Egypt with Saint Francis is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Correggio, dated to c. 1520 and housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence.. The Rest on the Flight to Egypt with Saint Francis is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Correggio, dated to c. 1520 and housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence.. 
Eve, the Serpent and Death. Author Name: Hans Baldung. . . Eve, the Serpent and Death (or Eve, the Serpent, and Adam as Death) is a painting by the German Renaissance artist Hans Baldung, housed in the National Gallery of Canada, Ottawa. The date of the picture is debated, with proposals ranging from the early 1510s to between 1525 and 1530. Its four main elements are the biblical Eve, a male figure personifying death and generally likened to Adam, a serpent, and a tree trunk.. Eve, the Serpent and Death (or Eve, the Serpent, and Adam as Death) is a painting by the German Renaissance artist Hans Baldung, housed in the National Gallery of Canada, Ottawa. The date of the picture is debated, with proposals ranging from the early 1510s to between 1525 and 1530. Its four main elements are the biblical Eve, a male figure personifying death and generally likened to Adam, a serpent, and a tree trunk.. 
Portrait of Sigismund of Luxemburg. Author Name: Pisanello. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/International_Gothic. . The Portrait of Sigismund of Luxembourg is a tempera on panel painting attributed to the Italian Late-Gothic master Pisanello and probably executed between 1432 and 1433. It is on display at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna, Austria.. The Portrait of Sigismund of Luxembourg is a tempera on panel painting attributed to the Italian Late-Gothic master Pisanello and probably executed between 1432 and 1433. It is on display at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna, Austria.. 
The Flight of Europa. Author Name: Paul Manship. . . The Flight of Europa is a bronze Art Deco sculpture created by American artist Paul Manship in 1925. Copies are held by the Indianapolis Museum of Art, the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, The Columbus Museum, Columbus, Georgia, and the Smithsonian American Art Museum. It depicts the Greek myth of Europa being abducted by Zeus in the form of a bull.. The Flight of Europa is a bronze Art Deco sculpture created by American artist Paul Manship in 1925. Copies are held by the Indianapolis Museum of Art, the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, The Columbus Museum, Columbus, Georgia, and the Smithsonian American Art Museum. It depicts the Greek myth of Europa being abducted by Zeus in the form of a bull.. 
Yo, Picasso. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Yo, Picasso, is a painting by Pablo Picasso done in 1901.In 2013, it was exhibited at the Courtauld Gallery, "Becoming Picasso: Paris 1901.". Yo, Picasso, is a painting by Pablo Picasso done in 1901. In 2013, it was exhibited at the Courtauld Gallery, "Becoming Picasso: Paris 1901.". 
Bourke Street. Author Name: Tom Roberts. . . Bourke Street is a 1886 painting by Australian artist Tom Roberts. Roberts originally titled the work Allegro con brio. The painting depicts the western end of Bourke Street, one of the main thoroughfares in Melbourne as seen from the Buckley & Nunn drapery.. Bourke Street is a 1886 painting by Australian artist Tom Roberts. Roberts originally titled the work Allegro con brio. The painting depicts the western end of Bourke Street, one of the main thoroughfares in Melbourne as seen from the Buckley & Nunn drapery. The work was painted a few months after Roberts' return to Australia in 1885, after he had spent four years in Europe . It was not displayed until 1890, and only five days beforehand, Roberts added three female figures to the lower left. Roberts was unable to find a buyer and handed the painting to fellow artist, Frederick McCubbin. In 1920, McCubbin's widow sold the painting to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library for 20 guineas—forwarding the proceeds to Roberts, who was in London at the time.. 
Portrait of Camille Roulin. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Vincent van Gogh enjoyed making Paintings of Children. He once said that it's the only thing that "excites me to the depths of my soul, and which makes me feel the infinite more than anything else." Painting children, in particular represented rebirth and the infinite. Over his career Van Gogh did not make many paintings of children, but those he completed were special to him. During the ten years of Van Gogh's career as a painter, from 1881 to 1890, his work changed and grew richer, particularly in how he used color and techniques symbolically or evocatively.. Vincent van Gogh enjoyed making Paintings of Children. He once said that it's the only thing that "excites me to the depths of my soul, and which makes me feel the infinite more than anything else." Painting children, in particular represented rebirth and the infinite. Over his career Van Gogh did not make many paintings of children, but those he completed were special to him. During the ten years of Van Gogh's career as a painter, from 1881 to 1890, his work changed and grew richer, particularly in how he used color and techniques symbolically or evocatively.His early works were earth-toned and dull. After a transformative period in Paris, Van Gogh embarked on his most prolific periods starting in Arles, in the south of France and continuing until his final days in Auvers-sur-Oise. During those times his work became more colorful and more reflective of influences, such as Impressionism and Japonism. Japonism influences are understood in the painting of a young girl, La Mousmé. Among others, he was inspired by the work of Jean-François Millet which he emulated in First Steps and Evening: The Watch. Van Gogh enjoyed painting portraits when he had available models. Possibly the greatest impact to his paintings of children came out of the friendship with Joseph Roulin and the many paintings of his family.. 
Venus Consoling Love. Author Name: François Boucher. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Rococo. . Venus Consoling Love is a painting by François Boucher, from 1751.The painting depicts a mythological scene, where Venus, the goddess of Love, depicted as a young, charming and supple young woman is impersonating the French Rococo's beauty ideals. She is about to disarm Cupid, by taking away his arrows, that he uses when shooting at people to make them fall in love.. Venus Consoling Love is a painting by François Boucher, from 1751.The painting depicts a mythological scene, where Venus, the goddess of Love, depicted as a young, charming and supple young woman is impersonating the French Rococo's beauty ideals. She is about to disarm Cupid, by taking away his arrows, that he uses when shooting at people to make them fall in love. Venus sits beside the pond with doves, the goddess symbol. The white doves at her feet, her complexion, the pearls in her hair are just as luxurious like the silk draperies that were wrapped around her, but now are lying on the ground. Boucher painted the artwork with soft pastel tones using a dim silvery light. The painting was made with high technical skill. The principal charm of Rococo art is its sensuality and seductivity.. 
View of Haarlem with Bleaching Fields. Author Name: Jacob van Ruisdael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_Golden_Age_painting. . View of Haarlem with Bleaching Fields (c. 1670–1675) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Kunsthaus Zürich.. View of Haarlem with Bleaching Fields (c. 1670–1675) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Kunsthaus Zürich. This painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1911, who wrote; "92. The Haarlem Bleaching-Grounds. In the left foreground is a marshy pool surrounded with trees. A road leads from it up a hill towards the right background. In the middle distance is part of the bleaching-grounds ; large pieces of linen are spread out near cottages, and many persons are at work. In the distance is the town of Haarlem, dominated by the church of St. Bavo. The sky is filled with great masses of cloud which overshadow almost the whole landscape ; stray sunbeams illumine part of the town and the bleaching-grounds. Signed in full in the left-hand bottom corner ; canvas, 25 1/2 inches by 22 inches. Exhibited at Diisseldorf, 1886, No. 288. Sale. Count Sierstorpff, Berlin, April 19, 1887, No. 67.. 
Bocca Baciata. Author Name: Dante Gabriel Rossetti. . . Bocca Baciata (1859) is a painting by Dante Gabriel Rossetti which represents a turning point in his career. It was the first of his pictures of single female figures, and established the style that was later to become a signature of his work. The model was Fanny Cornforth, the principal inspiration for Rossetti's sensuous figures.The title, meaning "mouth that has been kissed", refers to the sexual experience of the subject and is taken from the Italian proverb written on the back of the painting:. Bocca Baciata (1859) is a painting by Dante Gabriel Rossetti which represents a turning point in his career. It was the first of his pictures of single female figures, and established the style that was later to become a signature of his work. The model was Fanny Cornforth, the principal inspiration for Rossetti's sensuous figures. The title, meaning "mouth that has been kissed", refers to the sexual experience of the subject and is taken from the Italian proverb written on the back of the painting: Rossetti, an accomplished translator of early Italian literature, probably knew the proverb from Boccaccio’s Decameron where it is used as the culmination of the tale of Alatiel: a beautiful Saracen princess who, despite having had sex on perhaps ten thousand occasions with eight separate lovers in the space of four years, successfully presents herself to the King of the Algarve as his virgin bride. Rossetti explained in a letter to William Bell Scott that he was attempting to paint flesh more fully, and to "avoid what I know to be a besetting fault of mine - & indeed rather common to PR painting - that of stipple in the flesh...Even among the old good painters, their portraits and simpler pictures are almost always their masterpieces for colour and execution; and I fancy if one kept this in view, one might have a better chance of learning to paint at last." The painting may have been influenced by Millais' portrait of his sister-in-law Sophie Gray, completed two years earlier.. 
Three Beauties of the Present Day. Author Name: Kitagawa Utamaro. . . Three Beauties of the Present Day (当時三美人 Tōji San Bijin) is a nishiki-e colour woodblock print from c. 1792–93 by Japanese ukiyo-e artist Kitagawa Utamaro (c. 1753–1806). The triangular composition depicts the busts of three celebrity beauties of the time: geisha Tomimoto Toyohina, and teahouse waitresses Naniwa Kita and Takashima Hisa. The print is also known under the titles Three Beauties of the Kansei Era (寛政三美人 Kansei San Bijin) and Three Famous Beauties (高名三美人 Kōmei San Bijin).. Three Beauties of the Present Day (当時三美人 Tōji San Bijin) is a nishiki-e colour woodblock print from c. 1792–93 by Japanese ukiyo-e artist Kitagawa Utamaro (c. 1753–1806). The triangular composition depicts the busts of three celebrity beauties of the time: geisha Tomimoto Toyohina, and teahouse waitresses Naniwa Kita and Takashima Hisa. The print is also known under the titles Three Beauties of the Kansei Era (寛政三美人 Kansei San Bijin) and Three Famous Beauties (高名三美人 Kōmei San Bijin). Utamaro was the leading ukiyo-e artist in the 1790s in the bijin-ga genre of pictures of female beauties. He was known for his ōkubi-e, which focus on the heads. The three models in Three Beauties of the Present Day were frequent subjects of Utamaro's portraiture. Each figure in the work is adorned with an identifying family crest. The portraits are idealized, and at first glance their faces seem similar, but subtle differences in their features and expressions can be detected—a level of realism at the time unusual in ukiyo-e, and a contrast with the stereotyped beauties in earlier masters such as Harunobu and Kiyonaga. The luxurious print was published by Tsutaya Jūzaburō and made with multiple woodblocks—one for each colour—and the background was dusted with muscovite to produce a glimmering effect. It is believed to have been quite popular, and the triangular positioning became a vogue in the 1790s. Utamaro produced several other pictures with the same arrangement of the same three beauties, and all three appeared in numerous other portraits by Utamaro and other artists.. 
The Gypsy Madonna. Author Name: Titian. . . The Gypsy Madonna is an oil painting, c. 1510, by Titian. It was once in the collection of Archduke Leopold Wilhelm of Austria and is now in the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna.. The Gypsy Madonna is an oil painting, c. 1510, by Titian. It was once in the collection of Archduke Leopold Wilhelm of Austria and is now in the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna.. 
Henry F. Schricker. Author Name: David K. Rubins. . . Henry F. Schricker, is a public artwork by American artist David K. Rubins, located in the Indiana State House, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, USA. It is a bronze bust of former Indiana governor Henry F. Schricker. The bust and its base are 49 inches high, 29 inches wide, and 22 inches long. The bust itself is 33.5 inches high on a 15.5 inch high base. It was installed in the southeast alcove of the Indiana State House in 1964 and faces east.. Henry F. Schricker, is a public artwork by American artist David K. Rubins , located in the Indiana State House, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, USA. It is a bronze bust of former Indiana governor Henry F. Schricker. The bust and its base are 49 inches high, 29 inches wide, and 22 inches long. The bust itself is 33.5 inches high on a 15.5 inch high base. It was installed in the southeast alcove of the Indiana State House in 1964 and faces east.. 
Showing "The Spanish Wedding", 1922. Author Name: Marià Fortuny. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . The Spanish Wedding or La Vicaria (1868-1870) is a masterwork by Marià Fortuny i Marsal, also known as Marià Fortuny or Mariano Fortuny. La Vicaria exemplifies genre painting of the 19th century. The use of jewel tones, contrasts between light and dark, and the virtuosity of the work attest to Fortuny’s talent. It resides at Museu Nacional d'Art de Catalunya in Barcelona, Spain.. The Spanish Wedding or La Vicaria (1868-1870) is a masterwork by Marià Fortuny i Marsal, also known as Marià Fortuny or Mariano Fortuny. La Vicaria exemplifies genre painting of the 19th century. The use of jewel tones, contrasts between light and dark, and the virtuosity of the work attest to Fortuny’s talent. It resides at Museu Nacional d'Art de Catalunya in Barcelona, Spain.. 
Les fleurs dédaignées. Author Name: Hilda Rix Nicholas. . . Les fleurs dédaignées is a 1925 painting by Australian artist Hilda Rix Nicholas.Emily Hilda Rix (known invariably as Hilda) was born in Ballarat, Victoria on 1 September 1884. She trained at the National Gallery of Victoria Art School from 1902 to 1905, where she was taught by a leading member of the Heidelberg School, Frederick McCubbin. After the death of her father in 1906, her family sailed for England early in 1907, where Hilda Rix trained for a time before then moving to Paris. There she studied at the Académie Delecluse, took lessons with American impressionist Richard Emil Miller, and attended the Académie de la Grande Chaumière, where Swiss-born illustrator Théophile Steinlen taught her. After successfully exhibiting works painted in north Africa, and a tragic marriage that ended. Les fleurs dédaignées is a 1925 painting by Australian artist Hilda Rix Nicholas. Emily Hilda Rix (known invariably as Hilda) was born in Ballarat, Victoria on 1 September 1884. She trained at the National Gallery of Victoria Art School from 1902 to 1905, where she was taught by a leading member of the Heidelberg School, Frederick McCubbin. After the death of her father in 1906, her family sailed for England early in 1907, where Hilda Rix trained for a time before then moving to Paris. There she studied at the Académie Delecluse, took lessons with American impressionist Richard Emil Miller, and attended the Académie de la Grande Chaumière, where Swiss-born illustrator Théophile Steinlen taught her. After successfully exhibiting works painted in north Africa, and a tragic marriage that ended within weeks when her husband, Matson Nicholas, was killed on the Western Front, Rix Nicholas returned to Australia. Rix Nicholas exhibited and painted in Australia in the early 1920s, before returning to France in 1924. In 1925, Rix Nicholas created one of her most extraordinary works, which would also be her largest canvas. Standing almost 2 metres (6.6 ft) high, and 128 centimetres (4.20 ft) wide, Les fleurs dédaignées ('The despised flowers') is an "unnerving" and "arresting" portrait of a young woman in fashionable eighteenth-century clothing. Painted not with the artist's typical technique, but in a mannerist style, the subject faces the viewer yet is glancing away, her pose tense, with a bunch of discarded flowers on the ground next to the hem of her enormous formal dress. The meaning of her pose and expression has preoccupied critics. While Pigot considered the subject to be "tense", other writers were less sure. Jennifer Gall thought that the subject represented tumultuous emotions, with a deliberate contrast between a pleasant setting and a disdainful expression. Artist Carole Best was in no doubt, concluding that the subject was "clearly pissed off". Curator Anne Gray of the The National Gallery of Australia observed "considerable emotional heat emanating from the subject", but wondered whether it was the case that the subject was irritated, or whether her expression could in fact be "the glimmer of a smile?" Although portraying a young lady, the person chosen to sit was "a Parisian professional model and a prostitute, apparently with a reputation for being moody and cantankerous". The pastiche created in this work is striking: a sixteenth-century artistic style, a composition comprising a seventeenth-century tapestry, but with an eighteenth-century-style dress. The tapestry on which the backdrop is based was owned by the artist (though lost in a fire after her death). The dress was created for the model to wear for this composition. The work reflects the scope of Rix Nicholas's abilities and ambitions, as she created a painting specifically with the intention of having it hung at the Paris Salon. When the work was displayed in Sydney in 1927, it grabbed The Sydney Morning Herald critic's attention: The painting was purchased by the National Gallery of Australia in 2008 from the artist's son, Rix Wright.. 
The Elephants. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The Elephants (Spanish: Los Elefantes) is a 1948 painting by the Spanish surrealist artist Salvador Dalí.. The Elephants (Spanish: Los Elefantes) is a 1948 painting by the Spanish surrealist artist Salvador Dalí.. 
The Last Miracle and Death of St. Zenobius. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Last Miracle and Death of St. Zenobius is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli, c. 1500-1505. It was part of series of four pictures displaying episodes of the life of saint Zenobius of Florence, which is the last known work by the Florentine painter. It is housed in the Gemäldegalerie of Dresden.The first three parts are:. The Last Miracle and Death of St. Zenobius is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli, c. 1500-1505. It was part of series of four pictures displaying episodes of the life of saint Zenobius of Florence, which is the last known work by the Florentine painter. It is housed in the Gemäldegalerie of Dresden. The first three parts are:. 
Étant donnés. Author Name: Marcel Duchamp. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Conceptual_art. . Étant donnés (Given: 1. The Waterfall, 2. The Illuminating Gas, French: Étant donnés: 1° la chute d'eau / 2° le gaz d'éclairage.) is Marcel Duchamp's last major art work which surprised most of the art world, who believed he had given up art for competitive chess almost 25 years earlier, following The Bride Stripped Bare by Her Bachelors, Even (also known as The Large Glass). It is a tableau, visible only through a pair of peep holes (one for each eye) in a wooden door, of a nude woman lying on her back with her face hidden and legs spread holding a gas lamp in the air in one hand against a landscape backdrop.. Étant donnés (Given: 1. The Waterfall, 2. The Illuminating Gas, French: Étant donnés: 1° la chute d'eau / 2° le gaz d'éclairage.) is Marcel Duchamp's last major art work which surprised most of the art world, who believed he had given up art for competitive chess almost 25 years earlier, following The Bride Stripped Bare by Her Bachelors, Even (also known as The Large Glass). It is a tableau, visible only through a pair of peep holes (one for each eye) in a wooden door, of a nude woman lying on her back with her face hidden and legs spread holding a gas lamp in the air in one hand against a landscape backdrop. Duchamp worked secretly on the piece from 1946 to 1966 in his Greenwich Village studio. It is composed of an old wooden door, nails, bricks, brass, aluminum sheet, steel binder clips, velvet, leaves, twigs, a female form made of parchment, hair, glass, plastic clothespins, oil paint, linoleum, an assortment of lights, a landscape composed of hand-painted and photographed elements and an electric motor housed in a cookie tin which rotates a perforated disc. The Brazilian sculptor Maria Martins, Duchamp's girlfriend from 1946 to 1951, served as the model for the female figure in the piece, and his second wife, Alexina (Teeny), served as the model for the figure's arm.Duchamp prepared a "Manual of Instructions" in a 4-ring binder explaining and illustrating how to assemble and disassemble the piece. The piece was created with the intention of having it displayed at the Philadelphia Museum of Art. Anne d'Harnoncourt, a young curator at the time and future director of the museum, orchestrated the acquisition and transfer of the piece to Philadelphia. According to the artist's wishes, it wasn't until 1969, after Duchamp's death in 1968, that Duchamp's widow Alexina Duchamp and son Paul Matisse installed the work at the Philadelphia Museum of Art and revealed the tableau to the public.. 
Virgil's Tomb, with the Figure of Silius Italicus. Author Name: Joseph Wright. . . Virgil's Tomb is the title of at least three paintings completed by Joseph Wright of Derby between 1779 and 1785.. Virgil's Tomb is the title of at least three paintings completed by Joseph Wright of Derby between 1779 and 1785.. 
Zapata. Author Name: Diego Rivera. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mexican_muralism. . Zapata (1932) is a lithograph by the Mexican artist Diego Rivera (1886–1957) that depicts the Mexican revolutionary Emiliano Zapata (1879–1919) as he holds the reins of a horse among a group of campesinos (peasants). The lithographic edition was created and printed twelve years after Zapata's assassination. Zapata is based on Agrarian Leader Zapata (1931), one of eight "portable" frescoes produced explicitly for Rivera's solo exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) in 1931, which was adapted from his previous Revolt panel from a fresco titled The History of Cuernavaca and Morelos (1929–30) painted in the Palace of Cortés, Cuernavaca. There were 100 original prints of the lithograph, many of which are in the collections of various art museums.. Zapata (1932) is a lithograph by the Mexican artist Diego Rivera (1886–1957) that depicts the Mexican revolutionary Emiliano Zapata (1879–1919) as he holds the reins of a horse among a group of campesinos (peasants). The lithographic edition was created and printed twelve years after Zapata's assassination. Zapata is based on Agrarian Leader Zapata (1931), one of eight "portable" frescoes produced explicitly for Rivera's solo exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) in 1931, which was adapted from his previous Revolt panel from a fresco titled The History of Cuernavaca and Morelos (1929–30) painted in the Palace of Cortés, Cuernavaca. There were 100 original prints of the lithograph, many of which are in the collections of various art museums.. 
Gonzaga Family in Adoration of the Holy Trinity. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Gonzaga Family in Adoration of the Holy Trinity is a painting by the Dutch artist Peter Paul Rubens, housed in the Ducal Palace of Mantua, northern Italy.The work was commissioned by Duke Vincenzo I Gonzaga for the Jesuit church in Mantua. The work represents the central part of a triptych, in which the two side panels depicted the Transfiguration and the Baptism of Christ. During the French occupation of northern Italy, in the early 19th century, the work was split, and some parts went lost.. The Gonzaga Family in Adoration of the Holy Trinity is a painting by the Dutch artist Peter Paul Rubens, housed in the Ducal Palace of Mantua, northern Italy. The work was commissioned by Duke Vincenzo I Gonzaga for the Jesuit church in Mantua. The work represents the central part of a triptych, in which the two side panels depicted the Transfiguration and the Baptism of Christ. During the French occupation of northern Italy, in the early 19th century, the work was split, and some parts went lost. The canvas portrays Vincenzo I and his wife, Eleonora de' Medici, near the images of the duke's parents, Guglielmo Gonzaga and Eleonore of Austria. Also depicted are several of their children with some halberdiers, one of which is Rubens' self-portrait.. 
The Last Supper. Author Name: Leonardo da Vinci. . . The Last Supper (Italian: Il Cenacolo [il tʃeˈnaːkolo] or L'Ultima Cena [ˈlultima ˈtʃeːna]) is a late 15th-century mural painting by Leonardo da Vinci in the refectory of the Convent of Santa Maria delle Grazie, Milan. It is one of the world's most famous paintings.Due to the methods used, and a variety of environmental factors, as well as intentional damage, very little of the original painting remains today, despite numerous restoration attempts, the last being completed in 1999.. The Last Supper (Italian: Il Cenacolo [il tʃeˈnaːkolo] or L'Ultima Cena [ˈlultima ˈtʃeːna]) is a late 15th-century mural painting by Leonardo da Vinci in the refectory of the Convent of Santa Maria delle Grazie, Milan. It is one of the world's most famous paintings. The work is presumed to have been commenced around 1495 and was commissioned as part of a plan of renovations to the church and its convent buildings by Leonardo's patron Ludovico Sforza, Duke of Milan. The painting represents the scene of The Last Supper of Jesus with his disciples, as it is told in the Gospel of John, 13:21. Leonardo has depicted the consternation that occurred among the Twelve Disciples when Jesus announced that one of them would betray him. Due to the methods used, and a variety of environmental factors, as well as intentional damage, very little of the original painting remains today, despite numerous restoration attempts, the last being completed in 1999.. 
Charity with Four Children. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Charity with Four Children is a sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Executed between 1627 and 1628, the work is housed in the Vatican Museums in Vatican City. The small terracotta sculpture represents Charity breast-feeding a child, with three other children playing. There is an imprint of the artist's thumbprint in the clay.. Charity with Four Children is a sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Executed between 1627 and 1628, the work is housed in the Vatican Museums in Vatican City. The small terracotta sculpture represents Charity breast-feeding a child, with three other children playing. There is an imprint of the artist's thumbprint in the clay.. 
Assumption of the Virgin. Author Name: Titian. . . Assumption of the Virgin is a large oil painting by Italian Renaissance artist Titian, executed in 1516–1518. It is located on the high altar in the Basilica di Santa Maria Gloriosa dei Frari in Venice, being the largest altarpiece in the city.. Assumption of the Virgin is a large oil painting by Italian Renaissance artist Titian, executed in 1516–1518. It is located on the high altar in the Basilica di Santa Maria Gloriosa dei Frari in Venice, being the largest altarpiece in the city.. 
Bust of Cardinal Richilieu. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Bust of Cardinal Richelieu is a marble sculpture by the Italian sculptor Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Located in The Louvre in Paris, Bernini executed the bust between 1640 and 1641, working from images of Cardinal Richelieu that had been sent to Rome from France. Once completed, the bust was transported to Paris.. The Bust of Cardinal Richelieu is a marble sculpture by the Italian sculptor Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Located in The Louvre in Paris, Bernini executed the bust between 1640 and 1641, working from images of Cardinal Richelieu that had been sent to Rome from France. Once completed, the bust was transported to Paris.. 
Nocturne in Black and Gold – The Falling Rocket. Author Name: James Abbott McNeill Whistler. . Author Movement: Founder of Tonalism. . Nocturne in Black and Gold – The Falling Rocket is a painting of c. 1875 by James Abbott McNeill Whistler that exemplified the Art for art's sake movement – a concept formulated by Pierre Jules Théophile Gautier and Charles Baudelaire. This painting was first shown at the Grosvenor Gallery in London in 1877 and is one of two works (the other being Nocturne in Black and Gold – The Firewheel) inspired by the Cremorne Gardens, a celebrated pleasure resort in London. One of his many works from his series of Nocturnes, it is the last of the London Nocturnes and is now widely acknowledged to be the high point of Whistler's middle period. Whistler's depiction of the industrial city park in The Falling Rocket includes a fireworks display in the foggy night sky. Nocturne in Black and Gold – The Fal. Nocturne in Black and Gold – The Falling Rocket is a painting of c. 1875 by James Abbott McNeill Whistler that exemplified the Art for art's sake movement – a concept formulated by Pierre Jules Théophile Gautier and Charles Baudelaire. This painting was first shown at the Grosvenor Gallery in London in 1877 and is one of two works (the other being Nocturne in Black and Gold – The Firewheel) inspired by the Cremorne Gardens, a celebrated pleasure resort in London. One of his many works from his series of Nocturnes, it is the last of the London Nocturnes and is now widely acknowledged to be the high point of Whistler's middle period. Whistler's depiction of the industrial city park in The Falling Rocket includes a fireworks display in the foggy night sky. Nocturne in Black and Gold – The Falling Rocket is most famously known as the inception of the lawsuit between Whistler and the art critic John Ruskin.. 
Garçon à la pipe. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Garçon à la Pipe (English: Boy with a Pipe) is a painting by Pablo Picasso. It was painted in 1905 when Picasso was 24 years old, during his Rose Period, soon after he settled in the Montmartre section of Paris, France. The oil on canvas painting depicts a Parisian boy holding a pipe in his left hand and wearing a garland or wreath of flowers.. Garçon à la Pipe (English: Boy with a Pipe) is a painting by Pablo Picasso. It was painted in 1905 when Picasso was 24 years old, during his Rose Period, soon after he settled in the Montmartre section of Paris, France. The oil on canvas painting depicts a Parisian boy holding a pipe in his left hand and wearing a garland or wreath of flowers.. 
Neptune and Triton. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Neptune and Triton is an early sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. It is housed in the Victoria and Albert Museum of London and was executed c. 1622–1623. Carved from marble, it stands 182.2 cm (71.7 in) in height.. Neptune and Triton is an early sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. It is housed in the Victoria and Albert Museum of London and was executed c. 1622–1623. Carved from marble, it stands 182.2 cm (71.7 in) in height.. 
Whaling Off Goto from Oceans of Wisdom. Author Name: Hokusai. . . Chie no umi ("Oceans of Wisdom", also known as "A Thousand Views of the Sea and Waterside") is a chuban yoko-e (19 x 25.4 cm.) sized woodblock print series by the Japanese artist Hokusai. Subjects of the prints include fishing, oceans and whaling. The series is one of Hokusai's rarest sets. It seems to have been issued in the mid-1830s and, like the Hyakunin Isshu ("One Hundred Poems Explained by the Nurse") series of the same date, publication of the prints ceased abruptly. Ten prints comprise the complete set, although a number of preparatory drawings are extant for prints that were never made.. Chie no umi ("Oceans of Wisdom", also known as "A Thousand Views of the Sea and Waterside") is a chuban yoko-e (19 x 25.4 cm.) sized woodblock print series by the Japanese artist Hokusai. Subjects of the prints include fishing, oceans and whaling. The series is one of Hokusai's rarest sets. It seems to have been issued in the mid-1830s and, like the Hyakunin Isshu ("One Hundred Poems Explained by the Nurse") series of the same date, publication of the prints ceased abruptly. Ten prints comprise the complete set, although a number of preparatory drawings are extant for prints that were never made.. 
Madonna with Child and Saints. Author Name: Pontormo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . The Madonna with Child and Saints, also known as Pala Pucci, is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance painter Jacopo Pontormo, executed in 1516. It is housed in the church of San Michele Visdomini in Florence.It portrays numerous figures. St. Joseph, on the left, is holding Jesus (a role usually fulfilled by the Madonna). The presence of St. Joseph is explained by the fact that his gospel, the Gospel of James, deals with Christ's childhood and praises Joseph's paternal cares. St. Francis is connected to name of the committant and the devotion of his order towards Jesus.. The Madonna with Child and Saints, also known as Pala Pucci, is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance painter Jacopo Pontormo, executed in 1516. It is housed in the church of San Michele Visdomini in Florence. It portrays numerous figures. St. Joseph, on the left, is holding Jesus (a role usually fulfilled by the Madonna). The presence of St. Joseph is explained by the fact that his gospel, the Gospel of James, deals with Christ's childhood and praises Joseph's paternal cares. St. Francis is connected to name of the committant and the devotion of his order towards Jesus.. 
The Age of Bronze. Author Name: Auguste Rodin. . . The Age of Bronze (French: L'Âge d'airain) is a bronze statue by the French sculptor Auguste Rodin (1840–1917). The figure is of a life-size nude male, 72 in. (182.9 cm) high. Rodin continued to produce casts of the statue for several decades after it was modelled in 1876.. The Age of Bronze (French: L'Âge d'airain) is a bronze statue by the French sculptor Auguste Rodin (1840–1917). The figure is of a life-size nude male, 72 in. (182.9 cm) high. Rodin continued to produce casts of the statue for several decades after it was modelled in 1876.. 
Allegory of Fortune. Author Name: Salvator Rosa. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Allegory of Fortune, sometimes also named La Fortuna, is an oil painting on canvas that was created around 1658 or 1659 by the Italian baroque painter, Salvator Rosa, which caused uproar when first exhibited publicly and almost got the painter jailed and excommunicated. Bearing initials, but undated, it measures 200.7 by 133 centimetres (79.0 by 52.4 in). Rosa was known for his landscape paintings, but also worked in the sphere of mythology, witchcraft, portraits, and satire. Since 1978 it has been in the J. Paul Getty Museum in Malibu, California.. Allegory of Fortune, sometimes also named La Fortuna, is an oil painting on canvas that was created around 1658 or 1659 by the Italian baroque painter, Salvator Rosa, which caused uproar when first exhibited publicly and almost got the painter jailed and excommunicated. Bearing initials, but undated, it measures 200.7 by 133 centimetres (79.0 by 52.4 in). Rosa was known for his landscape paintings, but also worked in the sphere of mythology, witchcraft, portraits, and satire. Since 1978 it has been in the J. Paul Getty Museum in Malibu, California.. 
Marriage à-la-mode: 1. The Marriage Settlement. Author Name: William  Hogarth. . . The Marriage Settlement is the first in the series of six satirical paintings known as Marriage à-la-mode painted by William Hogarth.. The Marriage Settlement is the first in the series of six satirical paintings known as Marriage à-la-mode painted by William Hogarth.. 
Diana Bathing with her Nymphs with Actaeon and Callisto. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Diana Bathing with her Nymphs with Actaeon and Callisto is a 1634 painting by the Dutch painter Rembrandt van Rijn. It is now on show in the Salm-Salm princely collection in the Wasserburg Anholt in Isselburg, Germany.Unusually, the painting also includes an image of an elderly couple unrelated to either of the two stories (background) and a middle-aged nymph (in the foreground).. Diana Bathing with her Nymphs with Actaeon and Callisto is a 1634 painting by the Dutch painter Rembrandt van Rijn. It is now on show in the Salm-Salm princely collection in the Wasserburg Anholt in Isselburg, Germany. It shows two episodes from Ovid's Metamorphoses, in both of which someone is punished by the goddess Diana for a sexual offence. On the left, Actaeon is punished for seeing the goddess naked by being turned into a stag and killed by his own hounds. On the right, Diana's other nymphs are tearing off Callisto's clothing to reveal how she has broken her vow of chastity and is now carrying Jupiter's child - Diana expels her from her court and she later gives birth to Arcas before being turned into a bear by Juno, whom Arcas almost kills whilst hunting. Unusually, the painting also includes an image of an elderly couple unrelated to either of the two stories (background) and a middle-aged nymph (in the foreground).. 
Man in the mud. Author Name: Corlett, Peter. . . Man in the mud is a diorama by Peter Corlett which forms part of the collection of the Australian War Memorial (AWM). It depicts an Australian soldier of World War I sitting on a muddy battlefield in France. The diorama was commissioned by the AWM in 1986, and was placed on display in 1989. Man in the mud is popular with visitors to the Memorial, and remained on display after the AWM's World War I galleries were closed for major renovations in 2013.. Man in the mud is a diorama by Peter Corlett which forms part of the collection of the Australian War Memorial (AWM). It depicts an Australian soldier of World War I sitting on a muddy battlefield in France. The diorama was commissioned by the AWM in 1986, and was placed on display in 1989. Man in the mud is popular with visitors to the Memorial, and remained on display after the AWM's World War I galleries were closed for major renovations in 2013.. 
Monument With Standing Beast. Author Name: Jean Dubuffet. . . Monument with Standing Beast is a sculpture by Jean Dubuffet in front of the Helmut Jahn designed James R. Thompson Center in the Loop community area of Chicago, Illinois. Its location is across the street from Chicago City Hall to the South and diagonal across the street from the Daley Center to the southeast. It is a 29-foot (8.8 m) white fiberglass work of art. The piece is a 10-ton or 20,000 pounds (9,100 kg) work. It was unveiled on November 28, 1984.The sculpture is affectionately known to many Chicagoans as "Snoopy in a blender".. Monument with Standing Beast is a sculpture by Jean Dubuffet in front of the Helmut Jahn designed James R. Thompson Center in the Loop community area of Chicago, Illinois. Its location is across the street from Chicago City Hall to the South and diagonal across the street from the Daley Center to the southeast. It is a 29-foot (8.8 m) white fiberglass work of art. The piece is a 10-ton or 20,000 pounds (9,100 kg) work. It was unveiled on November 28, 1984. This is one of Dubuffet's three monumental sculpture commissions in the United States. It has been taken to represent a standing animal, a tree, a portal and an architectural form. The sculpture is based on Dubuffet's 1960 painting series Hourioupe. The sculpture and the series of figural and landscape designs it is a part of reflects his thoughts of earliest monumental commission, for the One Chase Manhattan Plaza. The sculpture is one of 19 commissioned artworks funded under the State of Illinois Art-in-Architecture Program throughout the building. This was commissioned by the Capital Development Board of Illinois. The sculpture is affectionately known to many Chicagoans as "Snoopy in a blender".. 
Colonel Richard Owen. Author Name: Belle Kinney Scholz. . . The Colonel Richard Owen bust is a public artwork by American artist Belle Kinney Scholz and is located in the Indiana Statehouse in Indianapolis, Indiana. The bronze bust was dedicated in 1913 as a memorial to U.S. Army Colonel Richard Owen. It was funded by contributions from individuals and Confederate veteran associations in recognition of Owen's courtesy to Confederate prisoners of war while he was commandant of Camp Morton, a prison camp in Indianapolis, during the American Civil War. The bust is approximately 70 inches (180 cm) tall (including base), 40 inches (100 cm), and 21 inches (53 cm).. The Colonel Richard Owen bust is a public artwork by American artist Belle Kinney Scholz and is located in the Indiana Statehouse in Indianapolis, Indiana. The bronze bust was dedicated in 1913 as a memorial to U.S. Army Colonel Richard Owen. It was funded by contributions from individuals and Confederate veteran associations in recognition of Owen's courtesy to Confederate prisoners of war while he was commandant of Camp Morton, a prison camp in Indianapolis, during the American Civil War. The bust is approximately 70 inches (180 cm) tall (including base), 40 inches (100 cm), and 21 inches (53 cm).. 
Miss La La at the Cirque Fernando. Author Name: Edgar Degas. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Miss La La at the Cirque Fernando is a painting by Edgar Degas, the French Impressionist artist, now in the collection of the National Gallery in London, England. It shows the acrobat Miss La La hanging on a rope by her teeth at the Cirque Fernando in Montmartre, Paris.The painting was bought by the Trustees of the Courtauld Fund in 1925. It was returned from the Tate Gallery to the National Gallery in 1950.. Miss La La at the Cirque Fernando is a painting by Edgar Degas, the French Impressionist artist, now in the collection of the National Gallery in London, England. It shows the acrobat Miss La La hanging on a rope by her teeth at the Cirque Fernando in Montmartre, Paris. The painting was bought by the Trustees of the Courtauld Fund in 1925. It was returned from the Tate Gallery to the National Gallery in 1950.. 
Portrait of Bishop Bernardo de' Rossi. Author Name: Lorenzo Lotto. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Bishop Bernardo de' Rossi is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Lorenzo Lotto, dating to 1505. It is housed in the National Museum of Capodimonte of Naples, southern Italy.The work dates to Lotto's stay in Treviso, and featured a cover (with title, signature and dates, identified as the Allegory of Virtues and Vices now at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, United States. The portrait was brought to Parma by Bernardo de' Rossi when he fled there in 1524. Here it became part of the Farnese collection, which was transferred to Naples in 1760.. The Portrait of Bishop Bernardo de' Rossi is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Lorenzo Lotto, dating to 1505. It is housed in the National Museum of Capodimonte of Naples, southern Italy. The work dates to Lotto's stay in Treviso, and featured a cover (with title, signature and dates, identified as the Allegory of Virtues and Vices now at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, United States. The portrait was brought to Parma by Bernardo de' Rossi when he fled there in 1524. Here it became part of the Farnese collection, which was transferred to Naples in 1760.. 
Still Life with Head-Shaped Vase and Japanese Woodcut. Author Name: Paul Gauguin. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Still Life with Head-Shaped Vase and Japanese Woodcut is an 1889 still life painting by French artist, Paul Gauguin. It is currently in the collection of the Tehran Museum of Contemporary Art in Tehran.. Still Life with Head-Shaped Vase and Japanese Woodcut is an 1889 still life painting by French artist, Paul Gauguin. It is currently in the collection of the Tehran Museum of Contemporary Art in Tehran.. 
Never war. Author Name: Goslawski, Jozef. . . The "Never war" monument is an antiwar statue located in Luboń, Poland, on the site of a former German internment camp known as Żabikowo. The monument was designed and built by Józef Gosławski in 1955, using granite and sandstone. It was unveiled 4 November 1956 by General Zygmunt Berling.The monument depicts a man embracing a woman and child. On the pedestal is an inscription: NEVER WAR (Polish: NIGDY WOJNY).. The "Never war" monument is an antiwar statue located in Luboń, Poland, on the site of a former German internment camp known as Żabikowo. The monument was designed and built by Józef Gosławski in 1955, using granite and sandstone. It was unveiled 4 November 1956 by General Zygmunt Berling. The monument depicts a man embracing a woman and child. On the pedestal is an inscription: NEVER WAR (Polish: NIGDY WOJNY).. 
Major General James B. McPherson. Author Name: Rebisso, Louis. . . Major General James B. McPherson is a public artwork by American artist Louis Rebisso, located at McPherson Square in Washington, D.C., United States. Major General James B. McPherson was originally surveyed as part of the Smithsonian's Save Outdoor Sculpture! survey in 1993. The monument is a bronze equestrian statue of Civil War hero James B. McPherson.The statue is a contributing monument to the Civil War Monuments in Washington, DC, of the National Register of Historic Places.. Major General James B. McPherson is a public artwork by American artist Louis Rebisso, located at McPherson Square in Washington, D.C., United States. Major General James B. McPherson was originally surveyed as part of the Smithsonian's Save Outdoor Sculpture! survey in 1993. The monument is a bronze equestrian statue of Civil War hero James B. McPherson. The statue is a contributing monument to the Civil War Monuments in Washington, DC, of the National Register of Historic Places.. 
Madonna with Child and Saints. Author Name: Filippino Lippi. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Madonna with St. Catherine of Alexandria and St. Martin of Tours (c. 1490-1493) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Filippino Lippi. It is housed in the church of Santo Spirito of Florence.The painting is also known as Pala de' Nerli from the name of the commissioners, Tanai de' Nerli and his wife Nanna, which are portrayed at the sides as donors. the choice of the saints is also connected to the personality of Nerli, who was particularly devoted to St. Catherine (he baptized his daughter with her name) and was a member of the Company of San Martino de' Buonomini.. The Madonna with St. Catherine of Alexandria and St. Martin of Tours (c. 1490-1493) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Filippino Lippi. It is housed in the church of Santo Spirito of Florence. The painting is also known as Pala de' Nerli from the name of the commissioners, Tanai de' Nerli and his wife Nanna, which are portrayed at the sides as donors. the choice of the saints is also connected to the personality of Nerli, who was particularly devoted to St. Catherine (he baptized his daughter with her name) and was a member of the Company of San Martino de' Buonomini. The background is an influence from the Flemish school but also from the ancient architecture. Several scholars have dated it to 1494 due to an alleged reference to the presence of Charles VIII of France in the city. However, the numerous decorations hinting to the classical antiquities (the frieze in the loggia's pilasters, the goat head on the Virgin's seat and the frieze with the fight of the Tritons) would place it soon after his return from Rome. Behind the loggia is an unusual veduta of Florence with the Gate or Porta San Frediano (or San Niccolò) and de' Narli's palace. The commissioner is portrayed at the latter's door while hugging his daughter in front of his wife, while a groom cares his horse. 
The Trials of Moses. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Trials of Moses is a fresco by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli and his workshop, executed in 1481–1482 and located in the Sistine Chapel, Rome.. The Trials of Moses is a fresco by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli and his workshop, executed in 1481–1482 and located in the Sistine Chapel, Rome.. 
Spoliarium. Author Name: Juan Luna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Spoliarium (often misspelled Spolarium) is a painting by Filipino artist Juan Luna. The painting was submitted by Luna to the Exposición Nacional de Bellas Artes in 1884 in Madrid, where it garnered the first gold medal (out of three). In 1886, it was sold to the Diputación Provincial de Barcelona for 20,000 pesetas. It currently hangs in the main gallery at the ground floor of the National Museum of the Philippines, and is the first work of art that greets visitors upon entry into the museum.. The Spoliarium (often misspelled Spolarium) is a painting by Filipino artist Juan Luna. The painting was submitted by Luna to the Exposición Nacional de Bellas Artes in 1884 in Madrid, where it garnered the first gold medal (out of three). In 1886, it was sold to the Diputación Provincial de Barcelona for 20,000 pesetas. It currently hangs in the main gallery at the ground floor of the National Museum of the Philippines, and is the first work of art that greets visitors upon entry into the museum.. 
The Sower. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . The early works of Vincent van Gogh is a group of paintings and drawings that Vincent van Gogh made when he was 27 and 28, in 1881 and 1882, his first two years of serious artistic exploration. Over the course of the two-year period Van Gogh lived in several places. He left Brussels, where he had studied for about a year in 1881, to return to his parent's home in Etten (North Brabant), where he made studies of some of the residents of the town. In January 1882 Van Gogh went to The Hague where he studied with his cousin-in-law Anton Mauve and set up a studio, funded by Mauve. During the ten years of Van Gogh's artistic career from 1881 to 1890 Vincent's brother Theo would be a continuing source of inspiration and financial support; his first financial support began in 1880 funding Vincent w. The early works of Vincent van Gogh is a group of paintings and drawings that Vincent van Gogh made when he was 27 and 28, in 1881 and 1882, his first two years of serious artistic exploration. Over the course of the two-year period Van Gogh lived in several places. He left Brussels, where he had studied for about a year in 1881, to return to his parent's home in Etten (North Brabant), where he made studies of some of the residents of the town. In January 1882 Van Gogh went to The Hague where he studied with his cousin-in-law Anton Mauve and set up a studio, funded by Mauve. During the ten years of Van Gogh's artistic career from 1881 to 1890 Vincent's brother Theo would be a continuing source of inspiration and financial support; his first financial support began in 1880 funding Vincent while he lived in Brussels. In 1882 Van Gogh had an offer for a commission of paintings of The Hague however the paintings, now considered masterpieces, were not acceptable. Van Gogh started out primarily drawing and painting with watercolor. Under Mauve's tutelage Van Gogh began painting with oils in 1882. A subject that fascinated Van Gogh was the working class or peasant, inspired by the works of Jean-François Millet and others.. 
Le bonheur de vivre. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . Le bonheur de vivre (The Joy of Life) is a painting by Henri Matisse. Along with Picasso's Les Demoiselles d'Avignon, Le bonheur de vivre is regarded as one of the pillars of early modernism. The monumental canvas was first exhibited at the Salon des Indépendants of 1906, where its cadmium colors and spatial distortions caused a public expression of protest and outrage.. Le bonheur de vivre (The Joy of Life) is a painting by Henri Matisse. Along with Picasso's Les Demoiselles d'Avignon, Le bonheur de vivre is regarded as one of the pillars of early modernism. The monumental canvas was first exhibited at the Salon des Indépendants of 1906, where its cadmium colors and spatial distortions caused a public expression of protest and outrage.. 
The Hedgehog and the Fox. Author Name: Richard Serra. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Process_art. . The Hedgehog and the Fox is a late Minimalist sculpture of Richard Serra, installed between Peyton and Fine halls and the football stadium at Princeton University in 2000. It was commissioned for the university some years before his death in 1998 by Princeton graduate Peter Joseph in honour of his children.. The Hedgehog and the Fox is a late Minimalist sculpture of Richard Serra, installed between Peyton and Fine halls and the football stadium at Princeton University in 2000. It was commissioned for the university some years before his death in 1998 by Princeton graduate Peter Joseph in honour of his children.. 
Femme Lisant. Author Name: Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Femme Lisant is a 1869 painting by French artist Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot. The painting is now in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City.The painting depicts a woman reading; in the distance is a man in a boat. Corot, whose reputation was made as a landscape painter, painted many images of solitary, pensive women in his later years. Femme Lisant, which was shown at the Salon of 1869, is the only one of them that he exhibited in his lifetime.. Femme Lisant is a 1869 painting by French artist Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot. The painting is now in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. The painting depicts a woman reading; in the distance is a man in a boat. Corot, whose reputation was made as a landscape painter, painted many images of solitary, pensive women in his later years. Femme Lisant, which was shown at the Salon of 1869, is the only one of them that he exhibited in his lifetime.. 
Death and Fire. Author Name: Paul Klee. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Bauhaus. . Death and Fire, known in German as Tod und Feuer, is a 1940 expressionist painting by Paul Klee. It was one of the last before his death in June 29 of that year. In 1935 Klee started to suffer from scleroderma, which manifested itself with fatigue, skin rashes, difficulty in swallowing, shortness of breath and pain in the joints of his hands. Paintings during this period tended to be simpler and representative of the suffering he was going through. "Tod", the German word for death, is a common motif throughout the painting. It can be seen most distinctly in the features of the face, though the "d" and "t" are rotated. The word can also be seen in the figure's raised arm as the "T", the yellow orb as the "O", and the figure's head as the "D".. Death and Fire, known in German as Tod und Feuer, is a 1940 expressionist painting by Paul Klee. It was one of the last before his death in June 29 of that year. In 1935 Klee started to suffer from scleroderma, which manifested itself with fatigue, skin rashes, difficulty in swallowing, shortness of breath and pain in the joints of his hands. Paintings during this period tended to be simpler and representative of the suffering he was going through. "Tod", the German word for death, is a common motif throughout the painting. It can be seen most distinctly in the features of the face, though the "d" and "t" are rotated. The word can also be seen in the figure's raised arm as the "T", the yellow orb as the "O", and the figure's head as the "D". The painting also represents hieroglyphics, an interest of Klee's during this time, which can also be seen in many of his other late 1930s paintings, such as Insula dulcamara (1938) and Heroische Rosen (1938). As of 2014, it is on display at Zentrum Paul Klee, a museum in Bern, Switzerland that is dedicated to the works of Paul Klee.. 
Still Life with Old Shoe. Author Name: Joan Miró. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . Still Life with Old Shoe is a 1937 oil painting by Joan Miró, now part of the permanent collection of the Museum of Modern Art in New York. The work was given to the museum by James Thrall Soby in 1970.. Still Life with Old Shoe is a 1937 oil painting by Joan Miró, now part of the permanent collection of the Museum of Modern Art in New York. The work was given to the museum by James Thrall Soby in 1970.. 
Infinity. Author Name: Rivera, Jose de. . . Infinity is an Abstract sculpture, designed by Jose de Rivera and created by Roy Gussow. It is located at the south entrance, of the National Museum of American History, at Madison Drive, and 12th Street, Northwest, Washington, D.C.It was dedicated on March 28, 1967. It cost $104,520. It slowly rotates on its base.. Infinity is an Abstract sculpture, designed by Jose de Rivera and created by Roy Gussow. It is located at the south entrance, of the National Museum of American History, at Madison Drive, and 12th Street, Northwest, Washington, D.C. It was dedicated on March 28, 1967. It cost $104,520. It slowly rotates on its base.. 
The Trial. Author Name: Nolan, Sidney. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Angry_Penguins. . The Trial (1947) is a painting by the Australian painter Sidney Nolan.This painting depicts Ned Kelly's trial, where Kelly is depicted in handcuffs. A judge and several people look at him in the court. The painting is one of a number by Nolan to use enamel paint, usually Ripolin, a commercial paint not intended for art (and nothing to do with true vitreous enamel).Nolan painted the picture at Heide at Bulleen, Victoria, the home of John Reed and his wife, Sunday.Sunday Reed may have helped paint the floor of this painting. She supported Nolan while he painted the Kelly series.. The Trial (1947) is a painting by the Australian painter Sidney Nolan. This painting depicts Ned Kelly's trial, where Kelly is depicted in handcuffs. A judge and several people look at him in the court. The painting is one of a number by Nolan to use enamel paint, usually Ripolin, a commercial paint not intended for art (and nothing to do with true vitreous enamel). Nolan painted the picture at Heide at Bulleen, Victoria, the home of John Reed and his wife, Sunday. Sunday Reed may have helped paint the floor of this painting. She supported Nolan while he painted the Kelly series. This painting is currently in the National Gallery of Australia. The painting was donated by Sunday Reed. Nolan had left the painting among many others at Heide. Although Nolan once wrote to Sunday Reed to tell her to take what she wanted, he subsequently demanded all his works back. Sunday Reed returned 284 other paintings and drawings to Nolan, but she refused to give up the 27 remaining Kellys, partly because she saw the works as fundamental to the proposed Heide Museum of Modern Art. Eventually, she gave them to the National Gallery of Australia in 1977 and this resolved the dispute. In 1973, Nolan reproduced The Trial on a woven wool tapestry, which was lent to Admiralty House in Kirribilli, the official Sydney residence of the Governor-General of Australia. The tapestry was Sir John Kerr's favourite backdrop when making televised addresses. It is now located at the Federal Court of Australia in Sydney.. 
Portrait of an African Man. Author Name: Jan Mostaert. . . The Portrait of an African Man (Dutch: Portret van een Afrikaanse man) also known as Portrait of a Moor (Dutch: Portret van een Moor) is a painting by the Netherlandish Renaissance painter Jan Mostaert. Mostaert made the painting between c. 1520 and 1530. The exact subject of the painting has long been unclear, although numerous ideas have been put forward, including that the depicted figure is a soldier, a nobleman or Saint Maurice. The portrait is significant in that it may portray the earliest portrait of a specific black man in European painting, though Saint Maurice, and Balthazar of the Three Kings or Biblical Magi, had long been usually portrayed as black.. The Portrait of an African Man (Dutch: Portret van een Afrikaanse man) also known as Portrait of a Moor (Dutch: Portret van een Moor) is a painting by the Netherlandish Renaissance painter Jan Mostaert. Mostaert made the painting between c. 1520 and 1530. The exact subject of the painting has long been unclear, although numerous ideas have been put forward, including that the depicted figure is a soldier, a nobleman or Saint Maurice. The portrait is significant in that it may portray the earliest portrait of a specific black man in European painting, though Saint Maurice, and Balthazar of the Three Kings or Biblical Magi, had long been usually portrayed as black.. 
St. Jerome in Penance. Author Name: Fra' Filippo Lippi, O.Carm.. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The St. Jerome in Penance is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Filippo Lippi, dating to c. 1439. It is housed in the Lindenau-Museum of Altenburg, Germany. The work could be identified with the St. Jerome Penitent of which Lippi asked payment in a letter issued to Piero de' Medici in 1439.. The St. Jerome in Penance is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Filippo Lippi, dating to c. 1439. It is housed in the Lindenau-Museum of Altenburg, Germany. The work could be identified with the St. Jerome Penitent of which Lippi asked payment in a letter issued to Piero de' Medici in 1439. The painting is one of the first known example on the subject of St. Jerome doing penance. It is a small panel, divided into two different scenes: in the upper part is St. Jerome with the wooden cross, the stone to strike his breast and the lectern lying on the rock. In the lower part, with a chronological step, is the episode of the saint with the lion having a thorn in the paw. The unfriendly landscape is a metaphor of the hermit style of life.. 
Flora. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Flora or Saskia as Flora is a 1634 painting by Rembrandt, showing his wife Saskia van Uylenburgh as the goddess Flora. It is now in the Hermitage Museum in St Petersburg.This painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1915, who wrote; "206. FLORA. Bode 336 ; Dut. 267 ; Wb. 412 ; B.-HdG. 189. She stands, in profile to the left. She turns her face, which has Saskia's features, with a slight inclination towards the spectator. In her right hand she holds a staff entwined with flowers diagonally before her ; she lifts up her long mantle in front with her left hand. Her hair, adorned with a large garland of flowers, falls in long curls down her back. In her ear is a pearl. She wears a dress of gay pattern with loose sleeves, a scarf crossed on her bosom, and a light blue mantle falling from. Flora or Saskia as Flora is a 1634 painting by Rembrandt, showing his wife Saskia van Uylenburgh as the goddess Flora. It is now in the Hermitage Museum in St Petersburg. This painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1915, who wrote; "206. FLORA. Bode 336 ; Dut. 267 ; Wb. 412 ; B.-HdG. 189. She stands, in profile to the left. She turns her face, which has Saskia's features, with a slight inclination towards the spectator. In her right hand she holds a staff entwined with flowers diagonally before her ; she lifts up her long mantle in front with her left hand. Her hair, adorned with a large garland of flowers, falls in long curls down her back. In her ear is a pearl. She wears a dress of gay pattern with loose sleeves, a scarf crossed on her bosom, and a light blue mantle falling from her shoulders. The light, which is evenly distributed, falls from the left. Thick bushes form a dark background. Life size, three-quarter length. Wrongly called until now "The Jewish Bride." Signed on the left below the right hand, "Rembrandt f. 1634"; canvas, 50 inches by 40 inches. Etched by N. Mossoloff in Les Rembrandts de l'Ermitage ; and in the Zeitschrift für bildende Kunst, viii. Mentioned by Vosmaer, pp. 504, etc. ; by Bode, pp. 424, 60 1 ; by Dutuit, p. 37 ; by Michel, pp. 175, 567 [134, 441]. Sale. Herman Aarentz, Amsterdam, April II, 1770 (2600 florins, bought in) ; according to Van Eynden and Van der Willigen, iii. 384. Acquired by Catherine II., Empress of Russia, for the Hermitage. In the Hermitage Palace, Petrograd, 1901 catalogue, No. 812.". 
St. Francis in Ecstasy. Author Name: Giovanni Bellini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Ecstasy of St. Francis (or St. Francis in the Desert) is a painting by Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini, started in 1475 and completed around 1480. It is in the Frick Collection in New York City, displayed prominently in what was Henry Clay Frick, an American industrialist, financier, and art patron's living room. The painting is oil on panel and shows the influence of Andrea Mantegna, who was the painter's brother-in-law. It is signed IOANNES BELLINVS on a small, creased carta visible in the lower left corner. The painting is now in the Frick Collection and it is considered as one of its finest assets.. The Ecstasy of St. Francis (or St. Francis in the Desert) is a painting by Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini, started in 1475 and completed around 1480. It is in the Frick Collection in New York City, displayed prominently in what was Henry Clay Frick, an American industrialist, financier, and art patron's living room. The painting is oil on panel and shows the influence of Andrea Mantegna, who was the painter's brother-in-law. It is signed IOANNES BELLINVS on a small, creased carta visible in the lower left corner. The painting is now in the Frick Collection and it is considered as one of its finest assets.. 
Portrait of a Young Woman. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Portrait of a Young Woman is a painting which is commonly believed to be by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli, executed between 1480 and 1485. Others attribute authorship to Jacopo del Sellaio. The woman is shown in profile but with her bust turned in  three-quarter view to reveal a  cameo  medallion she is wearing round her neck. The medallion is a copy in reverse of "Nero's Seal", a famous antique carnelian representing Apollo and Marsyas, which belonged to Lorenzo de' Medici.. Portrait of a Young Woman is a painting which is commonly believed to be by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli, executed between 1480 and 1485. Others attribute authorship to Jacopo del Sellaio. The woman is shown in profile but with her bust turned in three-quarter view to reveal a cameo medallion she is wearing round her neck. The medallion is a copy in reverse of "Nero's Seal", a famous antique carnelian representing Apollo and Marsyas, which belonged to Lorenzo de' Medici. It is housed in the Städel of Frankfurt, Germany. Other similar Botticelli paintings are to be found in the National Gallery, London, the Gemäldegalerie, Berlin, and in the Marubeni Collection, Tokyo. David Alan Brown of the National Gallery of Art in Washington describes the painting as of an ideally beautiful young woman mythologised as a nymph or goddess, a view reflected in the title given it by the Städel. It belongs to a group of such paintings by Botticelli or his workshop. The art historian Aby Warburg first suggested the painting was an idealised portrait of Simonetta Vespucci.. 
Alexander Lyman Holley. Author Name: John Quincy Adams Ward. . . Alexander Lyman Holley is an outdoor bronze sculpture of Alexander Lyman Holley by artist John Quincy Adams Ward and architect Thomas Hastings, located in Washington Square Park in Manhattan, New York. Cast by the Henry-Bonnard Bronze Company of New York and dedicated in 1889, it consists of a bust set on an Indiana limestone pedestal and displays a Beaux-Arts style design.. Alexander Lyman Holley is an outdoor bronze sculpture of Alexander Lyman Holley by artist John Quincy Adams Ward and architect Thomas Hastings, located in Washington Square Park in Manhattan, New York. Cast by the Henry-Bonnard Bronze Company of New York and dedicated in 1889, it consists of a bust set on an Indiana limestone pedestal and displays a Beaux-Arts style design.. 
Madonna of the Book. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Madonna of the Book, or the Madonna del Libro, is a small painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Sandro Botticelli, and is preserved in the Poldi Pezzoli Museum in Milan. The painting is executed in tempera on panel. It dates from between 1480 and 1483.. The Madonna of the Book, or the Madonna del Libro, is a small painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Sandro Botticelli, and is preserved in the Poldi Pezzoli Museum in Milan. The painting is executed in tempera on panel. It dates from between 1480 and 1483.. 
Bombardment of Algiers. Author Name: Luny, Thomas. . . Bombardment of Algiers is one of a number of oil-on-canvas paintings by British artist Thomas Luny depicting the heavy bombardment of the harbour of Algiers by a fleet of Anglo-Dutch ships under the command of Admiral Lord Exmouth, and the ensuing destruction. The exact date of the paintings creation is not known, but it is signed and dated to 1820 by Luny, four years after the events depicted.. Bombardment of Algiers is one of a number of oil-on-canvas paintings by British artist Thomas Luny depicting the heavy bombardment of the harbour of Algiers by a fleet of Anglo-Dutch ships under the command of Admiral Lord Exmouth, and the ensuing destruction. The exact date of the paintings creation is not known, but it is signed and dated to 1820 by Luny, four years after the events depicted.. 
Cubist Still Life with Lemons. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Cubist Still Life with Lemons (sometimes Still Life with Lemons) is a 1975 painting by Roy Lichtenstein.Lichtenstein had a period of experimentation with still life painting from 1974 to 1976. Measuring 228.6 cm × 172.7 cm (90 in × 68 in), Still Life with Lemons represented a take on still life from the Cubist perspective, with Lichtenstein using many favorite Cubist motifs: "...pitcher, bowl of fruit, and faux wood grain - with some of his own, such as sections of the primary colors red, yellow, and blue, portions of an entablature, and a pattern of diagonal stripes." The work has an element of three-dimensionality due to its overlapping planes and reflection, although this still life series was meant to look flat. According to Jack Cowart, "...The scale of Lichtenstein's [Cubist still li. Cubist Still Life with Lemons (sometimes Still Life with Lemons) is a 1975 painting by Roy Lichtenstein. Lichtenstein had a period of experimentation with still life painting from 1974 to 1976. Measuring 228.6 cm × 172.7 cm (90 in × 68 in), Still Life with Lemons represented a take on still life from the Cubist perspective, with Lichtenstein using many favorite Cubist motifs: "...pitcher, bowl of fruit, and faux wood grain - with some of his own, such as sections of the primary colors red, yellow, and blue, portions of an entablature, and a pattern of diagonal stripes." The work has an element of three-dimensionality due to its overlapping planes and reflection, although this still life series was meant to look flat. According to Jack Cowart, "...The scale of Lichtenstein's [Cubist still life] work is antithetical to the primarily intimate and more closely related nature of real Cubism.". 
War. Author Name: Paula Rego. . . War is a painting created by Portuguese-British visual artist Paula Rego in 2003.. War is a painting created by Portuguese-British visual artist Paula Rego in 2003.. 
Portrait of Lucina Brembati. Author Name: Lorenzo Lotto. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Lucina Brembati is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Lorenzo Lotto, dating to c. 1506. It is housed in the Accademia Carrara of Bergamo, northern Italy.The work is known since 1882, when the Accademia acquired it from a private collection. The subject was identified later, after the rebus included in it was recognized: the moon in the upper left background contains the inscription "CI", which, in Italian, translates as "CI in Luna", e.g. "LuCIna"; the Brembati coat of arms is instead contained in ring of the woman's left forefinger.. The Portrait of Lucina Brembati is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Lorenzo Lotto, dating to c. 1506. It is housed in the Accademia Carrara of Bergamo, northern Italy. The work is known since 1882, when the Accademia acquired it from a private collection. The subject was identified later, after the rebus included in it was recognized: the moon in the upper left background contains the inscription "CI", which, in Italian, translates as "CI in Luna", e.g. "LuCIna"; the Brembati coat of arms is instead contained in ring of the woman's left forefinger.. 
Bardi Altarpiece. Author Name: Parmigianino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . The Bardi Altarpiece (Italian: Pala di Bardi), is an Italian Mannerist painting by the Italian painter Parmigianino, dating from c. 1521 and housed in the church of Santa Maria at Bardi, Emilia-Romagna, Italy.. The Bardi Altarpiece (Italian: Pala di Bardi), is an Italian Mannerist painting by the Italian painter Parmigianino, dating from c. 1521 and housed in the church of Santa Maria at Bardi, Emilia-Romagna, Italy.. 
Lady in white. Author Name: Jan Toorop. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Les_XX. . Lady in white is an impressionist painting of a woman wearing a white robe, from 1886, by Dutch painter Jan Toorop.. Lady in white is an impressionist painting of a woman wearing a white robe, from 1886, by Dutch painter Jan Toorop.. 
The Meeting of Leo the Great and Attila. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Meeting of Leo I and Attila is a fresco by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael and his assistant Giulio Romano. It was painted in 1514 as part of Raphael's commission to decorate the rooms that are now known as the Stanze di Raffaello, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. It is located in the Stanza di Eliodoro, which is named after The Expulsion of Heliodorus from the Temple.. The Meeting of Leo I and Attila is a fresco by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael and his assistant Giulio Romano. It was painted in 1514 as part of Raphael's commission to decorate the rooms that are now known as the Stanze di Raffaello, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. It is located in the Stanza di Eliodoro, which is named after The Expulsion of Heliodorus from the Temple. The painting depicts the meeting between the Pope Leo I and Attila the Hun, and includes the images of Saint Peter and Saint Paul in the sky bearing swords. Initially, Raphael depicted Leo I with the face of Pope Julius II but after Julius' death, Raphael changed the painting to resemble the new pope, Leo X.. 
Birds of Knowledge of Good and Evil. Author Name: Magdalena Abakanowicz. . . Birds of Knowledge of Good and Evil is a public artwork by Polish sculptor Magdalena Abakanowicz. It is located on the Kilbourn Avenue boulevard in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States. The 2001 aluminum sculpture consists six pieces organized in columns. The column heights are 4–6 meters, and the dimensions of the birds are: height 100–160 cm, width 190–260 cm, length 120–135 cm.. Birds of Knowledge of Good and Evil is a public artwork by Polish sculptor Magdalena Abakanowicz. It is located on the Kilbourn Avenue boulevard in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States. The 2001 aluminum sculpture consists six pieces organized in columns. The column heights are 4–6 meters, and the dimensions of the birds are: height 100–160 cm, width 190–260 cm, length 120–135 cm.. 
Jews Praying in the Synagogue on Yom Kippur. Author Name: Maurycy Gottlieb. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Jews Praying in the Synagogue on Yom Kippur or Jews pray, is a painting by Maurycy Gottlieb of 1878, depicting Ashkenazi Jews praying in the synagogue on Yom Kippur, the Jewish day of atonement. Traditional elements shown include tallitot, kippot, the Torah, and the separation of men and women in the synagogue. The artist has painted himself (to the right of the seated rabbi, looking outwards) among the people of his hometown of Drohobych.From reproductions published as prints and in the press in Poland and Germany it become a well-known example of Jewish art.. Jews Praying in the Synagogue on Yom Kippur or Jews pray, is a painting by Maurycy Gottlieb of 1878, depicting Ashkenazi Jews praying in the synagogue on Yom Kippur, the Jewish day of atonement. Traditional elements shown include tallitot, kippot, the Torah, and the separation of men and women in the synagogue. The artist has painted himself (to the right of the seated rabbi, looking outwards) among the people of his hometown of Drohobych. From reproductions published as prints and in the press in Poland and Germany it become a well-known example of Jewish art.. 
Holy Family and donors. Author Name: Vittore Carpaccio. . . The Holy Family and donors is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Vittore Carpaccio. It is in the Museu Calouste Gulbenkian, in Lisbon, Portugal.It shows the Holy Family on the left, and two donors in rich clothes on the right, all adoring the Christ Child in the centre. In the background is a fanciful landscape with the Magi riding towards the main scene.. The Holy Family and donors is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Vittore Carpaccio. It is in the Museu Calouste Gulbenkian, in Lisbon, Portugal. It shows the Holy Family on the left, and two donors in rich clothes on the right, all adoring the Christ Child in the centre. In the background is a fanciful landscape with the Magi riding towards the main scene.. 
The Drop. Author Name: Inges Idee. . . The Drop is a steel sculpture resembling a raindrop by the group of German artists known as Inges Idee, located at Bon Voyage Plaza in the Coal Harbour neighborhood of downtown Vancouver. The 65-foot (20 m) tall piece is covered with Styrofoam and blue polyurethane. According to Inges Idee, the sculpture is "an homage to the power of nature" and represents "the relationship and outlook towards the water that surrounds us." The Drop was commissioned as part of the 2009 Vancouver Convention Centre Art Project and is owned by BC Pavco.. The Drop is a steel sculpture resembling a raindrop by the group of German artists known as Inges Idee, located at Bon Voyage Plaza in the Coal Harbour neighborhood of downtown Vancouver. The 65-foot (20 m) tall piece is covered with Styrofoam and blue polyurethane. According to Inges Idee, the sculpture is "an homage to the power of nature" and represents "the relationship and outlook towards the water that surrounds us." The Drop was commissioned as part of the 2009 Vancouver Convention Centre Art Project and is owned by BC Pavco.. 
Wikipedia Monument. Author Name: Hakobyan, Mihran. . . The Wikipedia Monument (Polish: Pomnik Wikipedii), located in Słubice, Poland, is a statue designed by Armenian sculptor Mihran Hakobyan honoring Wikipedia contributors. The fiber and resin sculpture cost about 50,000 złotys (approximately US$14,000; 12,000 euros) and was funded by Słubice regional authorities. It was unveiled in Frankfurt Square (Plac Frankfurcki) on 22 October 2014 in a ceremony that included representatives from both local Wikimedia chapters and the Wikimedia Foundation.. The Wikipedia Monument (Polish: Pomnik Wikipedii), located in Słubice, Poland, is a statue designed by Armenian sculptor Mihran Hakobyan honoring Wikipedia contributors. The fiber and resin sculpture cost about 50,000 złotys (approximately US$14,000; 12,000 euros) and was funded by Słubice regional authorities. It was unveiled in Frankfurt Square (Plac Frankfurcki) on 22 October 2014 in a ceremony that included representatives from both local Wikimedia chapters and the Wikimedia Foundation.. 
The Kensingtons at Laventie. Author Name: Eric Kennington. . . The Kensingtons at Laventie is a large oil painting on glass by Eric Kennington completed in 1915 that depicts a First World War platoon of British troops. The group depicted was Kennington's own infantry platoon, Platoon No 7, C Company, the 1/13th (County of London) Battalion, London Regiment (Kensington), who were commonly known as the Kensingtons. Kennington completed the painting having been invalided out of the British Army due to wounds suffered on the Western Front in early 1915.. The Kensingtons at Laventie is a large oil painting on glass by Eric Kennington completed in 1915 that depicts a First World War platoon of British troops. The group depicted was Kennington's own infantry platoon, Platoon No 7, C Company, the 1/13th (County of London) Battalion, London Regiment (Kensington), who were commonly known as the Kensingtons. Kennington completed the painting having been invalided out of the British Army due to wounds suffered on the Western Front in early 1915. The painting is Kennington's most famous work. It has been described as "one of the iconic images of the First World War", and is held by the Imperial War Museum. When it was first exhibited in 1916, the painting had a large impact and hastened the establishment of an official British scheme for war artists.. 
Untitled. Author Name: Jacob Lawrence. . . Untitled (The Birth) is a 1938 tempera painting by American artist Jacob Lawrence, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. Depicting a scene of childbirth in flat, geometric forms and bright colors, it is very much a product of the Harlem Renaissance.. Untitled (The Birth) is a 1938 tempera painting by American artist Jacob Lawrence, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. Depicting a scene of childbirth in flat, geometric forms and bright colors, it is very much a product of the Harlem Renaissance.. 
Annunciation. Author Name: Fra' Filippo Lippi, O.Carm.. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Martelli Annunciation is a painting by Filippo Lippi, in the Martelli Chapel in the left transept of the Basilica di San Lorenzo, Florence.There is no information about the painting's origin, although it is likely that it was originally placed in the current location; the dating to c. 1440 is based on the style and the presence of St. Nicholas in the predella panels: this because Niccolò Martelli, a rich Florentine citizen which supported the reconstruction of the basilica during the Medici prominence in Florence.. The Martelli Annunciation is a painting by Filippo Lippi, in the Martelli Chapel in the left transept of the Basilica di San Lorenzo, Florence. There is no information about the painting's origin, although it is likely that it was originally placed in the current location; the dating to c. 1440 is based on the style and the presence of St. Nicholas in the predella panels: this because Niccolò Martelli, a rich Florentine citizen which supported the reconstruction of the basilica during the Medici prominence in Florence. The painting is considered the very first knew example of squared altarpiece, without any traditional gothic decoration like pinnacles or cusps, in order to better match the simple architecture of the church, by Brunelleschi. The panel is divided in two by a central column. It uses geometrical perspective to show a complex architecture including several edifices and an open loggia. There are several elements suggesting the influence of Flemish painting, by which Lippi was influenced during his stay in Padua. These include the glass ampulla in the foreground, symbolizing the holy Spirit. On the left, over a step, is a group of angels, while on the right is the Annunciation scene, inspired to Donatello's Cavalcanti Annunciation (c. 1435). The angel is holding a white lily, a symbol of the Virgin's purity. The three scenes in the predella are similar to those in the Barbadori Altarpiece, from 1438.. 
Le Boulevard de  Montmartre, Matinée de Printemps. Author Name: Camille Pissarro. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Le Boulevard de Montmartre, Matinée de Printemps is an oil on canvas painting by the French artist Camille Pissarro that he executed in 1897.By 1923 it was in the collection of the German industrialist and Holocaust victim Max Silberberg (de). Silberberg was obliged by the ruling Nazi regime to dispose of the work in a  forced sale in 1935. It was restituted to his family in 2000 and placed on loan with the Israel Museum until 2013. On 5 February 2014 it was auctioned at Sotheby's, London, for £19,682,500, double its pre-sale estimate.. Le Boulevard de Montmartre, Matinée de Printemps is an oil on canvas painting by the French artist Camille Pissarro that he executed in 1897. By 1923 it was in the collection of the German industrialist and Holocaust victim Max Silberberg (de). Silberberg was obliged by the ruling Nazi regime to dispose of the work in a forced sale in 1935. It was restituted to his family in 2000 and placed on loan with the Israel Museum until 2013. On 5 February 2014 it was auctioned at Sotheby's, London, for £19,682,500, double its pre-sale estimate.. 
The Old Musician. Author Name: Édouard Manet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Old Musician is an 1862 oil painting on canvas by French painter Édouard Manet, produced during the period when the artist was influenced by Spanish art. The painting also betrays the influence of Gustave Courbet. This work is one of Manet's largest paintings and is now conserved at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, DC... The Old Musician is an 1862 oil painting on canvas by French painter Édouard Manet, produced during the period when the artist was influenced by Spanish art. The painting also betrays the influence of Gustave Courbet. This work is one of Manet's largest paintings and is now conserved at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, DC.. The painting is composed of seven characters in a landscape. The old musician in the center who is preparing to play the violin is Jean Lagrène, the leader of a local gypsy band. At the left, there are a young girl standing with a baby in her arms, and two young boys. In the background, the man in the top hat is the rag picker and ironmonger Colardet. At the right, the Oriental man with a turban and a long robe, partly shown, represents Guéroult, a "wandering Jew". Attitudes and clothes of the characters seem to be inspired by Diego Velázquez or Louis Le Nain. The painting contains a series of allusions: the man in the top hat is the same character as The Absinthe Drinker, painted by Manet some years earlier and who reappears in this painting without any particular reason. The young boy in straw hat, meanwhile, is explicitly inspired by Antoine Watteau's Pierrot.. 
Place de la Concorde. Author Name: Edgar Degas. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Place de la Concorde or Viscount Lepic and his Daughters Crossing the Place de la Concorde or Ludovic Lepic and his Daughters is an 1875 oil by Edgar Degas. It depicts the cigar smoking Vicomte Ludovic-Napoléon Lepic, his daughters, and his dog, and a solitary man on the left in Place de la Concorde in Paris. The Tuileries Gardens can be seen in the background behind a stone wall. Many art historians believe that the large amount of negative space, the cropping and the way in which the figures are facing in random directions was influenced by photography.. Place de la Concorde or Viscount Lepic and his Daughters Crossing the Place de la Concorde or Ludovic Lepic and his Daughters is an 1875 oil by Edgar Degas. It depicts the cigar smoking Vicomte Ludovic-Napoléon Lepic, his daughters, and his dog, and a solitary man on the left in Place de la Concorde in Paris. The Tuileries Gardens can be seen in the background behind a stone wall. Many art historians believe that the large amount of negative space, the cropping and the way in which the figures are facing in random directions was influenced by photography. The painting was considered lost for four decades following World War II, until the Russian authorities put it on exhibition at the Hermitage Museum, where it remains to this day. During Soviet occupation of Germany the work was moved from the collection of Otto Gerstenberg to the Hermitage. Degas also painted the Viscount Lepic and His Daughters in a separate 1870 painting.. 
Landscape with the Ashes of Phocion. Author Name: Nicolas Poussin. . Author Movement: Baroque. . Landscape with the Ashes of Phocion is a 1648 painting, also known as Landscape with the Ashes of Phocion (Collected by His Widow) and The Ashes of Phocion Collected by his Widow, by French artist Nicolas Poussin. Phocion was an Athenian statesman from the 4th century BC.The same year Poussin painted a companion piece to Landscape with the Ashes of Phocion, The Funeral of Phocion, in three versions.. Landscape with the Ashes of Phocion is a 1648 painting, also known as Landscape with the Ashes of Phocion (Collected by His Widow) and The Ashes of Phocion Collected by his Widow, by French artist Nicolas Poussin. Phocion was an Athenian statesman from the 4th century BC. " It is a picture about exile. Phocion, an Athenian general, was falsely condemned and executed, and his unburied corpse banished, and taken to the outskirts of Megara where it was burnt. At the very front his faithful widow gathers up his ashes. Her servant keeps look out. And the outcasts are placed directly below the mighty nucleus of temple-rock-cloud. But nothing in the scene indicates that the civilisation from which they're excluded is itself evil, corrupt or doomed, that they're well out of it. No, their exile from the good life is sheer tragedy. The majestic symphony of the city continues undiminished." The painting is housed at the Walker Art Gallery, part of the National Museums Liverpool, England. The same year Poussin painted a companion piece to Landscape with the Ashes of Phocion, The Funeral of Phocion, in three versions.. 
Agostina Segatori Sitting in the Café du Tambourin. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Agostina Segatori Sitting in the Café du Tambourin was painted by Vincent van Gogh in 1887. Agostina Segatori owned the Café du Tambourin that Van Gogh knew intimately. It was a gathering spot for Parisian artists, a place where their work was exhibited. Van Gogh, unable to pay in cash for his meals, exchanged paintings for his fare. The paintings then adorned the restaurant. He held a special exhibit of his Japanese prints in the café as well. His connection with Agostina and the cafe came to a sad end when she went bankrupt and Van Gogh's paintings were confiscated by creditors. This painting, however, demonstrates an artistic discovery that culminated in his unique, creative style not quite on the brink of being understood and revered.. Agostina Segatori Sitting in the Café du Tambourin was painted by Vincent van Gogh in 1887. Agostina Segatori owned the Café du Tambourin that Van Gogh knew intimately. It was a gathering spot for Parisian artists, a place where their work was exhibited. Van Gogh, unable to pay in cash for his meals, exchanged paintings for his fare. The paintings then adorned the restaurant. He held a special exhibit of his Japanese prints in the café as well. His connection with Agostina and the cafe came to a sad end when she went bankrupt and Van Gogh's paintings were confiscated by creditors. This painting, however, demonstrates an artistic discovery that culminated in his unique, creative style not quite on the brink of being understood and revered.. 
Beneath the Snow Encumbered Branches. Author Name: Farquharson, Joseph. . . Beneath the Snow Encumbered Branches is a 1901 oil on canvas work by Scottish painter Joseph Farquharson. Its whereabouts were unknown between it going on public display in 1901 and the 1960s, when it was bought by a private collector. It reappeared on public display again in 2008, when it was sold at auction, selling for over twice its initial estimate and remaining in private hands in Scotland. It has become well known, as its likeness is used on a popular Hallmark Christmas card.. Beneath the Snow Encumbered Branches is a 1901 oil on canvas work by Scottish painter Joseph Farquharson. Its whereabouts were unknown between it going on public display in 1901 and the 1960s, when it was bought by a private collector. It reappeared on public display again in 2008, when it was sold at auction, selling for over twice its initial estimate and remaining in private hands in Scotland. It has become well known, as its likeness is used on a popular Hallmark Christmas card.. 
Jantar-Mantar. Author Name: Narendra Kalyan Patel. . . Jantar-Mantar is a public art work by sculptor Narendra Patel, located on the campus of the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee (UWM) on the east side of Milwaukee, Wisconsin.. Jantar-Mantar is a public art work by sculptor Narendra Patel, located on the campus of the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee (UWM) on the east side of Milwaukee, Wisconsin.. 
The Recovery of Bahía de Todos los Santos. Author Name: Mayno, Juan Bautista. . . The Recovery of Bahía de Todos los Santos is a mature work by the Spanish painter Juan Bautista Maíno (1580–1649). It was painted between 1634 and 1635 and commemorates the recapture of the Brazilian port of Salvador da Bahia from the Dutch by Fadrique Álvarez de Toledo y Mendoza in May 1625 and its return to the Portuguese Empire. Originally in the Salón de Reinos for which it was painted, it is now in the Prado Museum.. The Recovery of Bahía de Todos los Santos is a mature work by the Spanish painter Juan Bautista Maíno (1580–1649). It was painted between 1634 and 1635 and commemorates the recapture of the Brazilian port of Salvador da Bahia from the Dutch by Fadrique Álvarez de Toledo y Mendoza in May 1625 and its return to the Portuguese Empire. Originally in the Salón de Reinos for which it was painted, it is now in the Prado Museum. The painting avoids triumphalism and shows the suffering of war. In the right background Fadrique Álvarez beckons to an allegorical portrait of Philip III of Portugal trampling War, Wrath and Heresy and being crowned with laurels by Victoria and the Conde-Duque de Olivares. In front of the portrait are men celebrating the victory, but in the rest of the foreground is the aftermath of the battle, with men, women and children surrounding, helping and watching a wounded soldier, embodying Piety, Charity and Suffering.. 
The Hermit Saints. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . The Hermit Saints is an oil on panel triptych by Hieronymus Bosch, dating from around 1493. It measures 86 x 60 cm. It is housed at the Doge's Palace, Venice.. The Hermit Saints is an oil on panel triptych by Hieronymus Bosch, dating from around 1493. It measures 86 x 60 cm. It is housed at the Doge's Palace, Venice.. 
Cascading Waterfall. Author Name: Earley, John Joseph. . . Cascading Waterfall, is a public artwork by American artist John Joseph Earley, located Meridian Hill Park, which is in Washington, DC, United States. The Cascading Waterfall was originally surveyed as part of the Smithsonian's Save Outdoor Sculpture! survey in 1994. The fountain, reminiscent of 16th century Italian villas, focuses primarily on thirteen large semi-circular basins which the waterfall flows over, forming a cascade that overlooks the historic park.. Cascading Waterfall, is a public artwork by American artist John Joseph Earley, located Meridian Hill Park, which is in Washington, DC, United States. The Cascading Waterfall was originally surveyed as part of the Smithsonian's Save Outdoor Sculpture! survey in 1994. The fountain, reminiscent of 16th century Italian villas, focuses primarily on thirteen large semi-circular basins which the waterfall flows over, forming a cascade that overlooks the historic park.. 
Running Fence. Author Name: Christo and Jeanne-Claude. . Author Movement: Environmental art. . Running Fence was an installation art piece by Christo and Jeanne-Claude, which was completed on September 10, 1976. The builders removed it 14 days later, leaving no visible trace.It consisted of a veiled fence 24.5 miles (39.4 km) long extending across the hills of Sonoma and Marin counties in northern California, United States. The 18-foot (5.5 m) high fence was composed of 2,050 panels of white nylon fabric hung from steel cables by means of 350,000 hooks. The cables were supported by 2,050 steel poles stuck into the ground and braced by steel guy wires anchored to the earth.. Running Fence was an installation art piece by Christo and Jeanne-Claude, which was completed on September 10, 1976. The builders removed it 14 days later, leaving no visible trace. It consisted of a veiled fence 24.5 miles (39.4 km) long extending across the hills of Sonoma and Marin counties in northern California, United States. The 18-foot (5.5 m) high fence was composed of 2,050 panels of white nylon fabric hung from steel cables by means of 350,000 hooks. The cables were supported by 2,050 steel poles stuck into the ground and braced by steel guy wires anchored to the earth. The route of the fence began near U.S. Highway 101 and crossed 14 roads and the private property of 59 ranchers to reach the Pacific Ocean near Bodega Bay. The required environmental impact report for the piece was 450 pages long. The piece is said to have been partly inspired by fences demarcating the Continental Divide in Colorado. The piece was the subject of a 1978 documentary film Running Fence by Albert and David Maysles. The film includes scenes showing the local response to the project, which ranged from excitement to resentment and active protest. Several Californians including Expressionist painter Byron Randall protested the piece on the grounds of both land infringement and lack of artistic merit; however others appreciated the beauty of the work and in the end the project was completed. The piece is commemorated by historic markers at Watson School near Bodega, California and at State Route 1 in Valley Ford, California. In December 1976, the County Landmarks Commission, County of Sonoma designated the Valley Ford site (pole #7-33) as History Landmark #24. The largest remaining intact and continuous section of the Running Fence hangs below the ceiling of the Rio Theater in Monte Rio, California.. 
Studies of the Fetus in the Womb. Author Name: Leonardo da Vinci. . . Studies of the Fetus in the Womb are two colored annotated sketches by Leonardo da Vinci made in 1510–1512/13. The studies correctly depict the human fetus in its proper position inside the dissected uterus. Da Vinci depicted the uterus with one chamber, in contrast to theories that the uterus had multiple chambers which many believed divided fetuses into separate compartments in the case of twins. Da Vinci also correctly draw the uterine artery and the vascular system of the cervix and vagina.. Studies of the Fetus in the Womb are two colored annotated sketches by Leonardo da Vinci made in 1510–1512/13. The studies correctly depict the human fetus in its proper position inside the dissected uterus. Da Vinci depicted the uterus with one chamber, in contrast to theories that the uterus had multiple chambers which many believed divided fetuses into separate compartments in the case of twins. Da Vinci also correctly draw the uterine artery and the vascular system of the cervix and vagina.. 
Allegory of Divine Providence. Author Name: Pietro da Cortona. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Allegory of Divine Providence and Barberini Power  is a fresco by Italian painter Pietro da Cortona, filling the large ceiling of the grand salon of the Palazzo Barberini in Rome, Italy. Begun in 1633, it was nearly finished in three years; upon Cortona's return from Venice, it was extensively reworked to completion in 1639. The Palazzo, since the 1620s, had been the palatial home of the Barberini family headed by Maffeo Barberini, by then Urban VIII, who had launched an extensive program of refurbishment of the city with art and architecture.. The Allegory of Divine Providence and Barberini Power is a fresco by Italian painter Pietro da Cortona, filling the large ceiling of the grand salon of the Palazzo Barberini in Rome, Italy. Begun in 1633, it was nearly finished in three years; upon Cortona's return from Venice, it was extensively reworked to completion in 1639. The Palazzo, since the 1620s, had been the palatial home of the Barberini family headed by Maffeo Barberini, by then Urban VIII, who had launched an extensive program of refurbishment of the city with art and architecture.. 
Effect of Snow on Petit-Montrouge. Author Name: Édouard Manet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Effect of Snow on Petit-Montrouge (French: Effet de neige à Petit-Montrouge) is an 1870 landscape painting by the French painter Édouard Manet. The oil on canvas painting shows a winter view of Petit-Montrouge, an area in the 14th arrondissement of Paris. Manet painted this picture while a member of the National Guard during the 1870–71 Siege of Paris of the Franco-Prussian War. As opposed to the history painters of his time, Manet does not show a heroic view of battle, but rather the dusky ambiance of a looming battle. The image reflects Manet's loss of hope about the military situation, his profound loneliness, and the deprivation he suffered during this time. It is one of the few landscapes in Manet's oeuvre, and is one of Manet's first plein air paintings. Today it is in the collection. Effect of Snow on Petit-Montrouge (French: Effet de neige à Petit-Montrouge) is an 1870 landscape painting by the French painter Édouard Manet. The oil on canvas painting shows a winter view of Petit-Montrouge, an area in the 14th arrondissement of Paris. Manet painted this picture while a member of the National Guard during the 1870–71 Siege of Paris of the Franco-Prussian War. As opposed to the history painters of his time, Manet does not show a heroic view of battle, but rather the dusky ambiance of a looming battle. The image reflects Manet's loss of hope about the military situation, his profound loneliness, and the deprivation he suffered during this time. It is one of the few landscapes in Manet's oeuvre, and is one of Manet's first plein air paintings. Today it is in the collection of the National Museum Cardiff.. 
Equestrian statue of Gattamelata. Author Name: Donatello. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Equestrian Statue of Gattamelata is a sculpture by Italian early Renaissance artist Donatello, dating from 1453, located in the Piazza del Santo in Padua, Italy, today. It portrays the Renaissance condottiero Erasmo da Narni, known as "Gattamelata", who served mostly under the Republic of Venice, which ruled Padua at the time.. The Equestrian Statue of Gattamelata is a sculpture by Italian early Renaissance artist Donatello, dating from 1453, located in the Piazza del Santo in Padua, Italy, today. It portrays the Renaissance condottiero Erasmo da Narni, known as "Gattamelata", who served mostly under the Republic of Venice, which ruled Padua at the time.. 
Torpedo...Los!. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Torpedo...Los! (sometimes Torpedo...LOS!) is a 1963 pop art oil on canvas painting by Roy Lichtenstein. When it was last sold in 1989, The New York Times described the work as "a comic-strip image of sea warfare". It formerly held the record for the highest auction price for a Lichtenstein work. Its 1989 sale helped finance the construction of the current home of the Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago in 1991.. Torpedo...Los! (sometimes Torpedo...LOS!) is a 1963 pop art oil on canvas painting by Roy Lichtenstein. When it was last sold in 1989, The New York Times described the work as "a comic-strip image of sea warfare". It formerly held the record for the highest auction price for a Lichtenstein work. Its 1989 sale helped finance the construction of the current home of the Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago in 1991. Like many of Lichtenstein's works its title comes from the speech balloon in the painting. The work was included in Lichtenstein's second solo exhibition. The source of the image is a comic book from DC Comics. Lichtenstein has made significant alterations to the original image to change the focus and perspective in addition to significant alteration of the narrative element of the work. The work plays on the background-foreground relationship and the theme of vision that appears in many of Lichtenstein's works.. 
Pendant portraits of Maerten Soolmans and Oopjen Coppit. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Pendant portraits of Maerten Soolmans and Oopjen Coppit are a pair of full-length wedding portraits by Rembrandt. Formerly owned by the Rothschild family, they became jointly owned by the Louvre Museum and the Rijksmuseum in 2015 after both museums managed to contribute half of the purchase price of €160 million, a record for works by Rembrandt.. The Pendant portraits of Maerten Soolmans and Oopjen Coppit are a pair of full-length wedding portraits by Rembrandt. Formerly owned by the Rothschild family, they became jointly owned by the Louvre Museum and the Rijksmuseum in 2015 after both museums managed to contribute half of the purchase price of €160 million, a record for works by Rembrandt.. 
La Blanchisseuse. Author Name: Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Art_Nouveau. . La Blanchisseuse (The Laundress) is a 1886 painting by French artist Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec. On November 2005 it was sold for 22 million dollars at auction by Christie's.. La Blanchisseuse (The Laundress) is a 1886 painting by French artist Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec. On November 2005 it was sold for 22 million dollars at auction by Christie's.. 
No. 10. Author Name: Mark Rothko. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . No. 10 is a painting by the Russian-American Abstract expressionist artist Mark Rothko. It was painted in 1958.In common with Rothko's other works from this period, No 10 consists of large expanses of colour delineated by uneven, hazy shades.. No. 10 is a painting by the Russian-American Abstract expressionist artist Mark Rothko. It was painted in 1958. In common with Rothko's other works from this period, No 10 consists of large expanses of colour delineated by uneven, hazy shades.. 
La Laguna Estigia. Author Name: Félix Resurrección Hidalgo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . La Laguna Estigia (The River Styx or The Styx), also known simply as Laguna Estigia, is an 1887 Greco-Roman painting by Filipino painter Félix Resurrección Hidalgo. It is a companion-piece for Hidalgo’s other painting entitled La barca de Aqueronte. Like the La barca de Aqueronte, the La Laguna Estigia is based on Dante's Inferno, the painter pursuing the theme leading towards a “darker” and “more somber interpretation” of it.The painting was a gold medalist during the 1887 Exposicion General de las Islas Filipinas in Madrid, Spain.. La Laguna Estigia (The River Styx or The Styx), also known simply as Laguna Estigia, is an 1887 Greco-Roman painting by Filipino painter Félix Resurrección Hidalgo. It is a companion-piece for Hidalgo’s other painting entitled La barca de Aqueronte. Like the La barca de Aqueronte, the La Laguna Estigia is based on Dante's Inferno, the painter pursuing the theme leading towards a “darker” and “more somber interpretation” of it. The painting was a gold medalist during the 1887 Exposicion General de las Islas Filipinas in Madrid, Spain.. 
Darmstadt madonna. Author Name: Hans Holbein the Younger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Northern_Renaissance. . The Darmstadt Madonna (also known as the Madonna of Jakob Meyer zum Hasen) is an oil painting by Hans Holbein the Younger. Completed in 1526 in Basel, the work shows the Bürgermeister of Basel Jakob Meyer zum Hasen, his first wife (who had died earlier), his current wife, and his daughter grouped around the Madonna and infant Jesus. The meaning of the two other male figures on the left side is, like the overall iconography of the image, not entirely clear. The image testified to the resolutely Catholic faith of the Bürgermeister, who actively opposed the Reformation.. The Darmstadt Madonna (also known as the Madonna of Jakob Meyer zum Hasen) is an oil painting by Hans Holbein the Younger. Completed in 1526 in Basel, the work shows the Bürgermeister of Basel Jakob Meyer zum Hasen, his first wife (who had died earlier), his current wife, and his daughter grouped around the Madonna and infant Jesus. The meaning of the two other male figures on the left side is, like the overall iconography of the image, not entirely clear. The image testified to the resolutely Catholic faith of the Bürgermeister, who actively opposed the Reformation. The painting was influenced by Italian Renaissance religious painting, with elements of Netherlandish portrait painting. Earlier located in Darmstadt, whence its title, the work has been on temporary loan to the Städelschen Kunstinstitut in Frankfurt am Main since 2004 and until 2011.As of 2012, the painting is at display in the Johanniterkirche in Schwäbisch Hall.. 
Past. Author Name: Robert Ingersoll Aitken. . . Past is a 1935 outdoor sculpture by Robert Ingersoll Aitken, located in front of the National Archives Building in Washington, D.C., in the United States. John Russell Pope served as the sculpture's architect and Edward H. Ratti served as its carver. The sculpture is made of Indiana limestone and measures approximately 20 x 8 x 12 feet, with a base approximately 12 x 12 x 15 feet. Past is a companion piece to Present, also located in front of the National Archives Building.. Past is a 1935 outdoor sculpture by Robert Ingersoll Aitken, located in front of the National Archives Building in Washington, D.C., in the United States. John Russell Pope served as the sculpture's architect and Edward H. Ratti served as its carver. The sculpture is made of Indiana limestone and measures approximately 20 x 8 x 12 feet, with a base approximately 12 x 12 x 15 feet. Past is a companion piece to Present, also located in front of the National Archives Building.. 
Reply of the Zaporozhian Cossacks to Sultan Mehmed IV of the Ottoman Empire. Author Name: Ilya Repin. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Reply of the Zaporozhian Cossacks to Sultan Mehmed IV of the Ottoman Empire, also known as Cossacks of Saporog Are Drafting a Manifesto (Russian: Запорожцы пишут письмо турецкому султану), is a painting by Russian artist Ilya Repin. The 2.03 m (6.66 ft) by 3.58 m (11.74 ft) canvas was started in 1880 and finished in 1891. Repin recorded the years of work along the lower edge of the canvas. Alexander III bought the painting for 35,000 rubles, at the time the greatest sum ever paid for a Russian painting. Since then, the canvas has been exhibited in the State Russian Museum in Saint Petersburg. Vladimir Gilyarovsky, a popular journalist, was one of the models who posed for Repin.. Reply of the Zaporozhian Cossacks to Sultan Mehmed IV of the Ottoman Empire, also known as Cossacks of Saporog Are Drafting a Manifesto (Russian: Запорожцы пишут письмо турецкому султану), is a painting by Russian artist Ilya Repin. The 2.03 m (6.66 ft) by 3.58 m (11.74 ft) canvas was started in 1880 and finished in 1891. Repin recorded the years of work along the lower edge of the canvas. Alexander III bought the painting for 35,000 rubles, at the time the greatest sum ever paid for a Russian painting. Since then, the canvas has been exhibited in the State Russian Museum in Saint Petersburg. Vladimir Gilyarovsky, a popular journalist, was one of the models who posed for Repin.. 
Saint George and the Dragon. Author Name: Paolo Uccello. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . Saint George and the Dragon is a painting by Paolo Uccello dating from around 1470. It is on display in the National Gallery, London, United Kingdom. It was formerly housed in the Palais Lanckoroński in Vienna, belonging to Count Lanckoroński and sold by his son and heir Anton in 1959 through Mr Farago. The first mention of it being there is 1898.The eye in the storm gathering on the right of Saint George is lined up with his spear showing there has been divine intervention.An earlier less dramatic version of the same subject by the Italian artist is in the Musée Jacquemart-André, Paris.. Saint George and the Dragon is a painting by Paolo Uccello dating from around 1470. It is on display in the National Gallery, London, United Kingdom. It was formerly housed in the Palais Lanckoroński in Vienna, belonging to Count Lanckoroński and sold by his son and heir Anton in 1959 through Mr Farago. The first mention of it being there is 1898. Gothicizing tendencies in Paolo Uccello's art are nowhere more apparent than in this painting. It shows a scene from the famous story of Saint George and the dragon. On the right George is spearing the beast, and on the left the princess is using her belt as a leash to take the dragon up to the town. The eye in the storm gathering on the right of Saint George is lined up with his spear showing there has been divine intervention. An earlier less dramatic version of the same subject by the Italian artist is in the Musée Jacquemart-André, Paris. The painting is used as the basis for the U. A. Fanthorpe poem, Not My Best Side, and may have served as inspiration for Sir John Tenniel's illustration of the Jabberwock in Through the Looking-Glass, and What Alice Found There.. 
The Wounded Cuirassier. Author Name: Théodore Géricault. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . The Wounded Cuirassier (French: Le Cuirassier blessé quittant le feu) is an oil painting of a single anonymous soldier descending a slope with his horse by the French Romantic painter and lithographer Théodore Géricault (1791–1824). In this 1814 Salon entry, Géricault decided to depict a different view of battle than the generally done views of entire battles or of famous generals bravely fighting. On display just a few months after Napoleon's fall from power, this life-size painting symbolized the French defeats and Napoleon's failure. Though the painting is called "The Wounded Cuirassier", there are no visible wounds on the soldier. Additionally, though Géricault generally created several drafts before settling on a final design, there do not seem to be any paintings of his that could be. The Wounded Cuirassier (French: Le Cuirassier blessé quittant le feu) is an oil painting of a single anonymous soldier descending a slope with his horse by the French Romantic painter and lithographer Théodore Géricault (1791–1824). In this 1814 Salon entry, Géricault decided to depict a different view of battle than the generally done views of entire battles or of famous generals bravely fighting. On display just a few months after Napoleon's fall from power, this life-size painting symbolized the French defeats and Napoleon's failure. Though the painting is called "The Wounded Cuirassier", there are no visible wounds on the soldier. Additionally, though Géricault generally created several drafts before settling on a final design, there do not seem to be any paintings of his that could be considered precursors to this painting. Only his Signboard of a Hoofsmith, which is currently in a private collection, bears any resemblance in form or function to this painting. The two known copies of the painting are at the Musée du Louvre and at the Brooklyn Museum.. 
Ganymede Abducted by the Eagle. Author Name: Antonio da Correggio. . Author Movement: Mannerism. . Ganymede Abducted by the Eagle (c. 1531-1532) is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance artist Antonio da Correggio. It is housed in the Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna, Austria.The work was part of a series executed by Correggio for Federico II Gonzaga in Mantua, about the loves of Jupiter.. Ganymede Abducted by the Eagle (c. 1531-1532) is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance artist Antonio da Correggio. It is housed in the Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna, Austria. The work was part of a series executed by Correggio for Federico II Gonzaga in Mantua, about the loves of Jupiter.. 
Madonna of Humility. Author Name: Gentile da Fabriano. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/International_Gothic. . The Madonna of Humility is an tempera-on-panel painting by the Italian late medieval artist Gentile da Fabriano, dating from around 1420-1423 and housed in the Museo nazionale di San Matteo, Pisa.The work, once in the local Pious House of Misericordy, was commissioned in unknown circumstances, although its size suggests that it was destined to private devotion. It was perhaps ordered by cardinal Alemanno Adimari, archbishop of Pisa, who had his sepulchre in the Roman church of Santa Maria Nova decorated by Gentile (a lost work mentioned by late Renaissance art biographer Giorgio Vasari).. The Madonna of Humility is an tempera-on-panel painting by the Italian late medieval artist Gentile da Fabriano, dating from around 1420-1423 and housed in the Museo nazionale di San Matteo, Pisa. The work, once in the local Pious House of Misericordy, was commissioned in unknown circumstances, although its size suggests that it was destined to private devotion. It was perhaps ordered by cardinal Alemanno Adimari, archbishop of Pisa, who had his sepulchre in the Roman church of Santa Maria Nova decorated by Gentile (a lost work mentioned by late Renaissance art biographer Giorgio Vasari).. 
Seven Easy Pieces. Author Name: Marina Abramović. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Conceptual_art. . Seven Easy Pieces was a series of performances given by artist Marina Abramović in New York City at the Guggenheim Museum in November 2005.Although the performance art world traditionally frowns on repeating individual works, valuing their transient, ephemeral nature as intrinsic to their essence, as she aged, Abramović found herself compelled to preserve the performances that influenced her own development as an artist. Angry at seeing so many of the ideas developed in her and others' performances being appropriated without credit, including by commercial enterprises such as advertising and fashion, Abramović committed herself to archiving seven iconic works by recreating or reinterpreting them in Seven Easy Pieces, but only with the expressed consent of each of the original artists or th. Seven Easy Pieces was a series of performances given by artist Marina Abramović in New York City at the Guggenheim Museum in November 2005. Although the performance art world traditionally frowns on repeating individual works, valuing their transient, ephemeral nature as intrinsic to their essence, as she aged, Abramović found herself compelled to preserve the performances that influenced her own development as an artist. Angry at seeing so many of the ideas developed in her and others' performances being appropriated without credit, including by commercial enterprises such as advertising and fashion, Abramović committed herself to archiving seven iconic works by recreating or reinterpreting them in Seven Easy Pieces, but only with the expressed consent of each of the original artists or their estates. "There's nobody to keep the history straight," she told the New York Times in an interview published in early November 2005. "I felt almost, like, obliged. I felt like I have this function to do it." Seven Easy Piece's is also available in DVD. It's considered to be useful for performing arts students who study post-structuralism. Seven Easy Pieces comprised seven individual works – two of her own and five by other artists – performed on seven consecutive nights beginning on November 9th. They were, in order of performance:. 
Portrait of Isaak Abrahamsz Massa. Author Name: Frans Hals. . . Portrait of Isaak Abrahamsz. Massa is a 1626 painting by Frans Hals that is in the collection of the Art Gallery of Ontario. It depicts Isaac Massa, a prosperous merchant and a close friend of Hals. Massa was the subject of an earlier work by Hals – Isaak Abrahamsz Massa and Beatrix van der Lean – which also featured his wife. Massa would commission another portrait by Hals in 1635.. Portrait of Isaak Abrahamsz. Massa is a 1626 painting by Frans Hals that is in the collection of the Art Gallery of Ontario. It depicts Isaac Massa, a prosperous merchant and a close friend of Hals. Massa was the subject of an earlier work by Hals – Isaak Abrahamsz Massa and Beatrix van der Lean – which also featured his wife. Massa would commission another portrait by Hals in 1635. The painting is inscribed with the date 1626, but there is no mention of the identity of the sitter. For many years this led to debate, and it was often assumed to be a self-portrait. Wilhelm Valentiner was a noted proponent of this theory. Other scholars, such as Numa S. Trivas, did advance the idea that it was a portrait of Massa, and this was confirmed by the discovery of an inscription on a 17th-century engraving. The 1626 portrait is noted for its informality and vitality. Massa appears leaning over the back of a chair, a significant departure from standard formal portrait poses of the period. Hals would later use similar poses in a number of other paintings, and it would also be employed by other artists in later centuries. Massa’s expression is candid, distracted. He is relaxed and engaged in his own affairs. Hals’s brush strokes too are quick and free instead of smooth and controlled, which not only contributes to Hals’s distinct style but also allowed him to complete an entire painting in one sitting, which accounts for the high volume he produced in his lifetime. Many of Hals’s contemporaries were students of Caravaggio, influenced by his strong chiaroscuro. Though Hals may also have looked to Caravaggio his use of light is even, but Hals still manages to create bold highlights of Massa’s facial features – the right side of his face is illuminated while the left falls into a natural shadow. Massa had made his fortune as a silk merchant in Russia, and was a noted expert on the country. The view through the window of large coniferous trees may be intended to reflect this, it being a scene of Muscovy where much of Massa's trading was conducted. The landscape in the background may have not been painted by Hals, perhaps being the work of noted landscape artist Pieter de Molijn. In Massa's hand he holds a sprig of holly. In traditional symbolism this represents friendship and constancy, and may reflect the close relationship between the artist and subject. It has also been interpreted as Massa's pledge to be faithful to his wife during his long absences. For many years the painting was part of the collection of the Earls of Spencer. The 1822 Bibliotheca Spenceriana, a catalogue of the Spencer collection, describes it as hanging in one of the bedrooms of the estate. In 1924 the 7th Earl Spencer was forced to sell off part of the family collection to pay down debts. He sold the Hals, along with other works to art merchant Joseph Duveen. The next year Duveen sold the painting to Canadian businessman Frank P. Wood. Upon Wood's death in 1955 his collection was given to the Art Gallery of Ontario, which is where the portrait still resides. In 1959 the painting was stolen from the gallery, along with five other masterworks. The insurance company agreed to pay a ransom for the stolen pictures, and three weeks after disappearing the painting was recovered from a storage room in Parkdale. It had sustained only slight damage.. 
Maiwand Lion. Author Name: George Blackall Simonds. . . The Maiwand Lion is a sculpture and war memorial in the Forbury Gardens, a public park in the town of Reading, in the English county of Berkshire. The statue was named after the Battle of Maiwand and was erected in 1886 to commemorate the deaths of 329 men from the 66th (Berkshire) Regiment of Foot during the campaign in the Second Anglo-Afghan War in Afghanistan between 1878 and 1880. It is sometimes known locally as the Forbury Lion.The inscription on the plinth reads as follows:The Loddon Brewery, located in Dunsden Green close to Reading, brew an IPA called Forbury Lion.. The Maiwand Lion is a sculpture and war memorial in the Forbury Gardens, a public park in the town of Reading, in the English county of Berkshire. The statue was named after the Battle of Maiwand and was erected in 1886 to commemorate the deaths of 329 men from the 66th (Berkshire) Regiment of Foot during the campaign in the Second Anglo-Afghan War in Afghanistan between 1878 and 1880. It is sometimes known locally as the Forbury Lion. The inscription on the plinth reads as follows: The regiment lost approximately 258 men out of 500 (reports of the number vary, see the statue inscription total above) at the battle of Maiwand, having faced an Afghan army ten times larger than the British contingent. Eleven of the men, protecting the colours, made such a brave stand before their deaths that the Afghans who fought them reported it with great respect. Sir Arthur Conan Doyle based his character Doctor Watson on the regiment's Medical officer, Surgeon Major A F Preston who was injured in battle. The sculptor was George Blackall Simonds, a member of a Reading brewing family from Simonds' Brewery. The sculpture took two years to design and complete, and the lion is one of the world's largest cast iron statues. Rumours persist that Simonds committed suicide on learning that the lion's gait was incorrectly that of a domestic cat. In fact, he made careful observations on lions and the stance was anatomically correct despite various African expatriates disagreeing. He also lived for another 43 years, enjoying continuing success as a sculptor going on to create a statue of Queen Victoria (1887) and a statue of George Palmer (1891). He retired from sculpting in 1903 and worked in the family business eventually becoming its chairman in 1910. In 1922 he temporarily came out of retirement to build the Bradfield war memorial which commemorated the deaths in the First World War of those in the 2nd Battalion, South Wales Borderers which included his son. The Maiwand Lion features on the front page of one of the local newspapers, the Reading Post, and also on the Reading Football Club crest. The statue is made of cast iron and weighs 16 tons. It was cast by H. Young & Co. of Pimlico in 1886 and is supported on a terracotta pedestal. The rectangular pilastered plinth carries tablets recording the names of the dead, together with inscription above. The whole monument is listed grade II by English Heritage. The Loddon Brewery, located in Dunsden Green close to Reading, brew an IPA called Forbury Lion.. 
The Waterseller of Seville. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Waterseller of Seville is the title of three paintings by Spanish artist Diego Velázquez, dating from 1618–1622.. The Waterseller of Seville is the title of three paintings by Spanish artist Diego Velázquez, dating from 1618–1622.. 
The Shepherdess. Author Name: William-Adolphe Bouguereau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Shepherdess (French: Pastourelle) is a painting by William-Adolphe Bouguereau completed in 1889. The title is taken from the Southern French dialect. The painting depicts an idyllic, pastoral scene of a lone young woman in peasant attire posed for the artist, her arms balancing a stick across her shoulders, standing barefooted in the foreground. In the background are oxen grazing in the field. It is one of many paintings by Bouguereau depicting shepherdesses, including one of the same name created in 1881.. The Shepherdess (French: Pastourelle) is a painting by William-Adolphe Bouguereau completed in 1889. The title is taken from the Southern French dialect. The painting depicts an idyllic, pastoral scene of a lone young woman in peasant attire posed for the artist, her arms balancing a stick across her shoulders, standing barefooted in the foreground. In the background are oxen grazing in the field. It is one of many paintings by Bouguereau depicting shepherdesses, including one of the same name created in 1881. The subject is a model employed by Bouguereau for this and other paintings, including The Bohemian. It is currently in the permanent collection at the Philbrook Museum of Art in Tulsa, where it has become an emblematic image for the museum. It was the central image of a travelling exhibition about Bouguereau and his students that Philbrook created in 2006.. 
Scene from the Northwest: Portrait of John Henry Lefroy. Author Name: Paul Kane. . . Scene in the Northwest: Portrait of John Henry Lefroy, also known as The Surveyor, is a painting by Paul Kane circa 1845. It sold at auction in 2002 for C$5.1 million, making it the most expensive Canadian painting ever sold. It was purchased by media magnate Ken Thomson, who donated it to the Art Gallery of Ontario. The painting depicts British explorer John Henry Lefroy on his successful expedition to map the Magnetic North Pole.. Scene in the Northwest: Portrait of John Henry Lefroy, also known as The Surveyor, is a painting by Paul Kane circa 1845. It sold at auction in 2002 for C$5.1 million, making it the most expensive Canadian painting ever sold. It was purchased by media magnate Ken Thomson, who donated it to the Art Gallery of Ontario. The painting depicts British explorer John Henry Lefroy on his successful expedition to map the Magnetic North Pole. Lefroy returned to Toronto in November 1844 and it is likely that Kane painted him soon after that. Lefroy helped convince George Simpson to fund Kane's own western expeditions, which Kane began in June 1845. In the painting, Lefroy is dressed in the outfit of a coureur des bois wearing snow shoes, standing in front of a dog sled. In the background one of his companions walks towards a native woman's tipi. Lefroy returned to England in 1853 and took the painting with him. The original remained in the Lefroy family for some 150 years, but they had no knowledge of the artist or its value. It was forgotten in Canada until researchers at the Library and Archives Canada and the Art Gallery of Ontario learned of its existence and located it in the possession of one of Lefroy's descendants. They opted to put it up for auction in 2002. It sold at auction in February 2002 at Sotheby's Canada in Toronto for $5,062,500. The painting was appraised at $450,000 to $550,000, but a competitive auction vastly exceeded its appraised value as Thomson's agent competed with two American bidders. Its sale price more than doubled the previous record for a Canadian painting—$2.2 million for Lawren Harris's Baffin Island, which had been bought by Thomson the previous year. The sale price of Scene in the Northwest was almost ten times more than had ever had been paid for a Kane work; the previous record was $525,000 for Portrait of Maungwudaus in 1999. While scholars had no knowledge of the original painting for over a century, a copy of the painting did remain in Canada. This version was acquired by the Glenbow Museum in Calgary in the 1950s. Its artist, and who was depicted, had been forgotten, leading to many decades of debate. Some scholars credited the Glenbow painting to Kane and others to Cornelius Krieghoff. The rediscovery of the much higher-quality original has led to the consensus opinion that it is a copy of Kane's piece done by a lesser artist of the same period. One possibility is that it was created by Kane's wife, Harriet Clench, herself a skilled painter.. 
Bathers at Asnières. Author Name: Georges Seurat. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neo-impressionism. . Bathers at Asnières (French: Une Baignade, Asnières) is an oil-on-canvas painting by the French artist Georges Pierre Seurat, the first of his two masterpieces on the monumental scale. The canvas is of a suburban, but placid Parisian riverside scene. Isolated figures, with their clothes piled sculpturally on the riverbank, together with trees, austere boundary walls and buildings, and the River Seine are presented in a formal layout. A combination of complex brushstroke techniques, and a meticulous application of contemporary colour theory bring to the composition a sense of gentle vibrancy and timelessness.. Bathers at Asnières (French: Une Baignade, Asnières) is an oil-on-canvas painting by the French artist Georges Pierre Seurat, the first of his two masterpieces on the monumental scale. The canvas is of a suburban, but placid Parisian riverside scene. Isolated figures, with their clothes piled sculpturally on the riverbank, together with trees, austere boundary walls and buildings, and the River Seine are presented in a formal layout. A combination of complex brushstroke techniques, and a meticulous application of contemporary colour theory bring to the composition a sense of gentle vibrancy and timelessness. Seurat completed the painting of Bathers at Asnières in 1884, when he was twenty-four years old. He applied to the jury of the Salon of the same year to have the work exhibited there, but the jury rejected it. The Bathers continued to puzzle many of Seurat’s contemporaries, and the picture was not widely acclaimed until many years after the death of the artist at the age of just thirty-one. An appreciation of the painting’s merits grew during the twentieth century, and today it hangs in the National Gallery, London, where it is considered one of the highlights of the gallery’s collection of paintings.. 
The Descent From The Cross. Author Name: Folley, David. . . The Descent from the Cross by David Folley was commissioned by The Revd. Raymond Chudley to mark his retirement in 1996 as team leader of St Andrew's Church, Wickford, Essex.Over the centuries The Descent from the Cross or Deposition of Christ or Descent of Christ from the Cross, has been a common subject in Christian art. Famous examples from the old masters include those by Sir Peter Paul Rubens, Rembrandt, Jacopo Pontormo and Rogier van der Weyden whose work deeply influenced Folley’s geometric composition.. The Descent from the Cross by David Folley was commissioned by The Revd. Raymond Chudley to mark his retirement in 1996 as team leader of St Andrew's Church, Wickford, Essex. Over the centuries The Descent from the Cross or Deposition of Christ or Descent of Christ from the Cross, has been a common subject in Christian art. Famous examples from the old masters include those by Sir Peter Paul Rubens, Rembrandt, Jacopo Pontormo and Rogier van der Weyden whose work deeply influenced Folley’s geometric composition. Folley’s homage to Rogier van der Weyden’s masterpiece is a modern interpretation to “inspire the viewer to contemplate the historical, human and mystical elements of the crucifixion”. It was rendered by the painter in response to The Revd. Raymond Chudley (The Donor and Benefactor) request to create a work where the “viewer receives more from it the more he or she looks”. Folley’s controversial commission received a mixed response. The Ecclesiastical response to the work was approval; the Rev. Chudley said “It is slightly controversial, perhaps, but so dramatic. The viewer receives more from it the more he or she looks”. In his dedication of the work The Bishop of Bradwell, the Right Reverend Laurie Green explained to the congregation that Folley “has depicted the Descent of the Body of Christ from the Cross like the icons of old” to “meditate and reflect on the scene of utter horror”. In the transcript of the dedication he continues, “We want the brutal truth told but not in a brutal way”. In summing up his dedication The Bishop stated: "This was truth seen through the believing eye of the artist […]We should embrace the vision". Others however found the work to be ‘savage’. On the last visit the painter made to view the work in 2007 he found the painting behind a curtain; as the church warden informed him, “unfortunately, some of our congregation still find the image too painful to look at”. The commission remit from The Revd. Raymond Chudley was to paint a work which engages, inspires and up lifts the viewer to contemplate the historical and mystical human presence as found in the scene. With this in mind the painter included many Christian iconographic references. Two examples from the painter’s private notes: Firstly, in keeping with the fifteenth century tradition, the Revd. Chudley has been depicted in the role of the doner; kneeling in prayer with his attention transfixed upon the body of Christ. Secondly, the painter has included himself in the painting not as an ego motive but as a reflection of the Horation adage; 'the painter must live through his subjects’ actions so that their depiction is emotionally convincing. The Revd Chudley was introduced to Folley in 1976 when he was curate-in-charge of the Plymouth parish of Leigham and Glenholt where the painter had a studio. At the time, the painter was painting his version of the crucifixion inspired by Hieronymus Bosch’s The Garden of Earthly Delights. Impressed by the teenager’s artistic ability The Revd Chudley asked if he could have the finished work. Unfortunately it was never finished and subsequently destroyed by the painter in 1982. Twenty years later in 1995, Folley was commissioned to paint a large altar painting depicting Christ's Descent from the Cross. The painting’s first public unveiling was on Thursday 28 March 1996 at St. Andrew's Church Plymouth prior to the painting’s transportation to Wickford. The Bishop of Bradwell the Rt Revd. Dr. Laurie Green, unveiled and blessed the work on May 5, 1996, at the 09.30am Eucharist.. 
James Garfield Memorial. Author Name: Augustus Saint-Gaudens. . . James Garfield Memorial is an outdoor sculpture of James Garfield by Augustus Saint-Gaudens, located in Philadelphia's Fairmount Park on Kelly Drive below the Girard Avenue Bridge. It is the second monument to be commissioned by the Association for Public Art (formerly the Fairmount Park Art Association). The Fairmount Park Art Association initiated a fund in 1881 for the creation of the memorial following the assassination of President James A. Garfield, and in 1889, Augustus Saint-Gaudens was selected for the commission. The monument was cast in 1895 and dedicated on May 30, 1896 by Mayor Charles F. Warwick. The dedication ceremony included a grand river fete with parades and a flotilla along the Schuylkill River. The monument is one of 51 sculptures included in the Association for Publi. James Garfield Memorial is an outdoor sculpture of James Garfield by Augustus Saint-Gaudens, located in Philadelphia's Fairmount Park on Kelly Drive below the Girard Avenue Bridge. It is the second monument to be commissioned by the Association for Public Art (formerly the Fairmount Park Art Association). The Fairmount Park Art Association initiated a fund in 1881 for the creation of the memorial following the assassination of President James A. Garfield, and in 1889, Augustus Saint-Gaudens was selected for the commission. The monument was cast in 1895 and dedicated on May 30, 1896 by Mayor Charles F. Warwick. The dedication ceremony included a grand river fete with parades and a flotilla along the Schuylkill River. The monument is one of 51 sculptures included in the Association for Public Art's Museum Without Walls: AUDIO™ interpretive audio program for Philadelphia's outdoor sculpture. The inscription reads:A. ST GAUDENS '95 (?) Cast by the Henry-Bonnard Bronze Co.,NY 1895 (Front of shield held by figure of Republic:) E PLVRIBVSVNVMJAMES ABRAMGARFIELDPRESIDENT OF THEVNITED STATESMDCCCLXXXI (Base, above Republic's head:) MDCCCXXXI MDCCCLXXXI (Base, below bust:) MDCCCXCB (Fairmount Park Art Association plaque appears on the lower front of the base.) signed Founder's mark appears.. 
Mago Hermano. Author Name: Alejandro Colunga. . . Mago Hermano (Brother Wizard or Magician) is a 2003 bronze and steel sculpture by Mexican-born artist Alejandro Colunga, located in the lobby of Antoinette Hatfield Hall (part of Portland Center for the Performing Arts), at 1111 Southwest Broadway, in Portland, Oregon, United States.. Mago Hermano (Brother Wizard or Magician) is a 2003 bronze and steel sculpture by Mexican-born artist Alejandro Colunga, located in the lobby of Antoinette Hatfield Hall (part of Portland Center for the Performing Arts), at 1111 Southwest Broadway, in Portland, Oregon, United States.. 
Mariano Moreno at his work desk. Author Name: Subercaseaux, Pedro. . . Mariano Moreno en su mesa de trabajo (Spanish: Mariano Moreno at his work desk) is a portrait by the Chilean artist Pedro Subercaseaux. It shows the artist's interpretation of Mariano Moreno, Secretary of War of the Argentine Primera Junta, the first national government, working at his desk. It is currently regarded as the canonical image of Moreno.. Mariano Moreno en su mesa de trabajo (Spanish: Mariano Moreno at his work desk) is a portrait by the Chilean artist Pedro Subercaseaux. It shows the artist's interpretation of Mariano Moreno, Secretary of War of the Argentine Primera Junta, the first national government, working at his desk. It is currently regarded as the canonical image of Moreno.. 
La belle ferronnière. Author Name: Leonardo da Vinci. . . La belle ferronnière is a portrait of a woman, usually attributed to Leonardo da Vinci, in the Louvre. It is also known as Portrait of an Unknown Woman. The painting's title, applied as early as the seventeenth century, identifying the sitter as the wife or daughter of an ironmonger (a ferronnier), was said to be discreetly alluding to a reputed mistress of Francis I of France, married to a certain Le Ferron. The tale is a romantic legend of revenge in which the aggrieved husband intentionally infects himself with syphilis, which he passes to the king through infecting his wife.[citation needed]. La belle ferronnière is a portrait of a woman, usually attributed to Leonardo da Vinci, in the Louvre. It is also known as Portrait of an Unknown Woman. The painting's title, applied as early as the seventeenth century, identifying the sitter as the wife or daughter of an ironmonger (a ferronnier), was said to be discreetly alluding to a reputed mistress of Francis I of France, married to a certain Le Ferron. The tale is a romantic legend of revenge in which the aggrieved husband intentionally infects himself with syphilis, which he passes to the king through infecting his wife.[citation needed] Leonardo's Lady with an Ermine, has also been known by this name. This was once believed to be a portrait of Cecilia Gallerani—one of the mistresses of Lodovico 'il Moro' Sforza, Duke of Milan. The narrative and the title were applied to Lady with an Ermine when it was in Princess Czartoryski's collection, and became confused with "La Belle Ferronniere" by the presence in this image also of a jewel worn on a delicate chain across the forehead, called a ferronnière.. 
Racławice Panorama. Author Name: Wojciech Kossak. . . The Racławice Panorama (Polish: Panorama racławicka) is a monumental (15 × 114 meter) cycloramic painting depicting the Battle of Racławice, during the Kościuszko Uprising. It is currently located in Wrocław, Poland. The painting is one of only a few preserved relics of a genre of 19th century mass culture, and the oldest in Poland. The panorama stands in a circular fashion and, with the viewer in the center, presents different scenes at various viewing angles. A special kind of perspective used in the painting and additional effects (lighting, artificial terrain) create a feeling of reality.. The Racławice Panorama (Polish: Panorama racławicka) is a monumental (15 × 114 meter) cycloramic painting depicting the Battle of Racławice, during the Kościuszko Uprising. It is currently located in Wrocław, Poland. The painting is one of only a few preserved relics of a genre of 19th century mass culture, and the oldest in Poland. The panorama stands in a circular fashion and, with the viewer in the center, presents different scenes at various viewing angles. A special kind of perspective used in the painting and additional effects (lighting, artificial terrain) create a feeling of reality.. 
The Prophet Isaiah. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Prophet Isaiah is one of the seven Old Testament prophets painted by the Italian High Renaissance master Michelangelo (c. 1542–1545) on the Sistine Chapel ceiling. The Sistine Chapel is in Vatican Palace, in the Vatican City. Elements of this fresco have inspired various artists, including Caravaggio and Norman Rockwell in his famous Rosie the Riveter illustration.. The Prophet Isaiah is one of the seven Old Testament prophets painted by the Italian High Renaissance master Michelangelo (c. 1542–1545) on the Sistine Chapel ceiling. The Sistine Chapel is in Vatican Palace, in the Vatican City. Elements of this fresco have inspired various artists, including Caravaggio and Norman Rockwell in his famous Rosie the Riveter illustration. This particular fresco figure is painted fourth on the right from the side of the High Altar. Michelangelo's imagining bursts with movement, as Isaiah's cloak swirls around him. The colors in the portrayal – especially after the restoration – strike us as cool and luminous. The figure holds a distinctive blue book to his side, perhaps a depiction of the biblical Book of Isaiah. This painting has been held in particularly high regard by critics. Vasari said of it: "Anyone who studies this figure, copied so faithfully from nature, the true mother of the art of painting, will find a beautifully composed work capable of teaching in full measure all the precepts to be followed by a good painter". If compared to Raphael's imagining of the same figure, Michelangelo's portrayal seems far more fluid and less muscular, as well as brighter in color.. 
The Sorrows of the King. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . The Sorrows of the King is a collage using cut out paper shapes by Henri Matisse from 1952. It was made from paper he had coloured with gouache paint and is mounted on canvas. Its size is 292 x 386 cm. It is his final self-portrait. During the early-to-mid-1940s Matisse was in poor health. Eventually by 1950 he stopped painting in favor of his paper cutouts. The Sorrows of the King, is an example of Matisse's final body of works known as the cutouts.. The Sorrows of the King is a collage using cut out paper shapes by Henri Matisse from 1952. It was made from paper he had coloured with gouache paint and is mounted on canvas. Its size is 292 x 386 cm. It is his final self-portrait. During the early-to-mid-1940s Matisse was in poor health. Eventually by 1950 he stopped painting in favor of his paper cutouts. The Sorrows of the King, is an example of Matisse's final body of works known as the cutouts.. 
William Shakespeare. Author Name: John Quincy Adams Ward. . . William Shakespeare is an outdoor bronze sculpture of William Shakespeare by John Quincy Adams Ward, located in Central Park in Manhattan, New York. The statue was created in 1870 and unveiled in Central Park in 1872. Four thousand dollars towards the funding of the statue was raised at a benefit performance of Julius Caesar performed by the sons of Junius Brutus Booth (Junius Brutus Booth, Jr., Edwin Booth, and John Wilkes Booth) at the  Winter Garden Theater.. William Shakespeare is an outdoor bronze sculpture of William Shakespeare by John Quincy Adams Ward, located in Central Park in Manhattan, New York. The statue was created in 1870 and unveiled in Central Park in 1872. Four thousand dollars towards the funding of the statue was raised at a benefit performance of Julius Caesar performed by the sons of Junius Brutus Booth (Junius Brutus Booth, Jr., Edwin Booth, and John Wilkes Booth) at the Winter Garden Theater.. 
Girl Interrupted at her Music. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . Girl Interrupted at her Music is a painting by the Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer. It was painted in the baroque style, probably between the years 1658 and 1659, using oil on canvas. In this painting, Vermeer depicts a young woman at her music with an older gentleman. This painting shows the typical courtship during the 17th century in Europe. It also focuses on the importance of music when it comes to love. The room that they are shown in is one of higher class, most likely belonging to a person of haute bourgeoisie. The painting is very reminiscent of Vermeer’s other works.. Girl Interrupted at her Music is a painting by the Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer. It was painted in the baroque style, probably between the years 1658 and 1659, using oil on canvas. In this painting, Vermeer depicts a young woman at her music with an older gentleman. This painting shows the typical courtship during the 17th century in Europe. It also focuses on the importance of music when it comes to love. The room that they are shown in is one of higher class, most likely belonging to a person of haute bourgeoisie. The painting is very reminiscent of Vermeer’s other works.. 
La Parisienne. Author Name: Félix Resurrección Hidalgo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The La Parisienne is an 1889 painting by Félix Resurrección Hidalgo. The painting depicts a woman holding an umbrella known as the parasol, a theme similar to Juan Luna's La Madrileña (En el Balcon). Hidalgo's La Parisienne was the first Philippine work of art to be chosen as a cover for Sotheby's sale catalog due to its importance, rarity, uniqueness, and exclusivity. Before the painting's appearance at Sotheby's Southeast Asian paintings sale in Singapore on April 6, 2003, the last time the La Parisienne was exhibited was at the 1889 Paris Exposition Universelle. It is also the only painting of Hidalgo that was featured on the cover of La Illustraccion Española y Americano, a popular weekly magazine in Spain. It appeared on the Spanish magazine's cover on February 28, 2003. Like Luna's L. The La Parisienne is an 1889 painting by Félix Resurrección Hidalgo. The painting depicts a woman holding an umbrella known as the parasol, a theme similar to Juan Luna's La Madrileña (En el Balcon). Hidalgo's La Parisienne was the first Philippine work of art to be chosen as a cover for Sotheby's sale catalog due to its importance, rarity, uniqueness, and exclusivity. Before the painting's appearance at Sotheby's Southeast Asian paintings sale in Singapore on April 6, 2003, the last time the La Parisienne was exhibited was at the 1889 Paris Exposition Universelle. It is also the only painting of Hidalgo that was featured on the cover of La Illustraccion Española y Americano, a popular weekly magazine in Spain. It appeared on the Spanish magazine's cover on February 28, 2003. Like Luna's La Madrileña (En el Balcon), Hidalgo's La Parisienne is one of two rare paintings created by famous Filipino artists that have not been viewed for a century by the public.. 
España y Filipinas. Author Name: Juan Luna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . España y Filipinas, meaning “Spain and the Philippines” in translation, is an 1886 oil on wood by Filipino painter, ilustrado, propagandist, and paladin, Juan Luna. It is an allegorical depiction of two women together, one a representation of Spain and the other of the Philippines. The painting, also known as España Guiando a Filipinas ("Spain Leading the Philippines"), is regarded as one of the “enduring pieces of legacy” that the Filipinos inherited from Luna. The painting is a centerpiece art at the Luna Hall of the Lopez Memorial Museum.. España y Filipinas, meaning “Spain and the Philippines” in translation, is an 1886 oil on wood by Filipino painter, ilustrado, propagandist, and paladin, Juan Luna. It is an allegorical depiction of two women together, one a representation of Spain and the other of the Philippines. The painting, also known as España Guiando a Filipinas ("Spain Leading the Philippines"), is regarded as one of the “enduring pieces of legacy” that the Filipinos inherited from Luna. The painting is a centerpiece art at the Luna Hall of the Lopez Memorial Museum.. 
Colonel Mordaunts Cock Match. Author Name: Johan Zoffany. . . Error: Image is invalid or non-existent.Colonel Mordaunt's Cock Match, sometimes called Colonel Mordaunt's Cock Fight, is a painting by Johann Zoffany. The painting records British colonial life in the Indian court of Asaf-Ud-Dowlah. The painting is part of the Tate Gallery collection. The painting was completed in February 1788, four years after the event it records. A recent cleaning has revealed the original colours and the arousal of the central figure.. Error: Image is invalid or non-existent. Colonel Mordaunt's Cock Match, sometimes called Colonel Mordaunt's Cock Fight, is a painting by Johann Zoffany. The painting records British colonial life in the Indian court of Asaf-Ud-Dowlah. The painting is part of the Tate Gallery collection. The painting was completed in February 1788, four years after the event it records. A recent cleaning has revealed the original colours and the arousal of the central figure.. 
Portrait of Olivia Boteler Porter. Author Name: Anthony van Dyck. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Portrait of Olivia Boteler Porter is an oil painting on canvas by Anthony van Dyck, showing Olivia Boteler Porter. Olivia, daughter of John Boteler, 1st Baron Boteler of Bramfield, and niece of the Duke of Buckingham, was a zealous Roman Catholic and a lady in waiting to Henrietta Maria of France, queen consort to Charles I of England. It was discovered on the Your Paintings website by Bendor Grosvenor after being documented by the Public Catalogue Foundation.. The Portrait of Olivia Boteler Porter is an oil painting on canvas by Anthony van Dyck, showing Olivia Boteler Porter. Olivia, daughter of John Boteler, 1st Baron Boteler of Bramfield, and niece of the Duke of Buckingham, was a zealous Roman Catholic and a lady in waiting to Henrietta Maria of France, queen consort to Charles I of England. It was discovered on the Your Paintings website by Bendor Grosvenor after being documented by the Public Catalogue Foundation.. 
Tête. Author Name: Amedeo Modigliani. . . Tête is a limestone sculpture by Amedeo Modigliani and is amongst the most expensive works of art ever sold. In 2010 an anonymous telephone bidder purchased Tête for €43.2 million at Christie's in Paris. The sale was a record at a French auction and placed the sculpture amongst the most expensive ever sold. An anonymous telephone bidder won the auction. Since 1927 the piece had been in the collection of Gaston Lévy, an artist and acquaintance of Modigliani.. Tête is a limestone sculpture by Amedeo Modigliani and is amongst the most expensive works of art ever sold. In 2010 an anonymous telephone bidder purchased Tête for €43.2 million at Christie's in Paris. The sale was a record at a French auction and placed the sculpture amongst the most expensive ever sold. An anonymous telephone bidder won the auction. Since 1927 the piece had been in the collection of Gaston Lévy, an artist and acquaintance of Modigliani.. 
Performing Frogs. Author Name: Gilhooly, David. . . Performing Frogs is a 1982 sculpture by David Gilhooly, located in Eugene, Oregon, in the United States.. Performing Frogs is a 1982 sculpture by David Gilhooly, located in Eugene, Oregon, in the United States.. 
Pietà. Author Name: Titian. . . Pietà is the last painting by the Italian master Titian (c. 1575). It is housed in the Gallerie dell'Accademia of Venice.The picture represents, over the background of a larger niche in Mannerist style, the Madonna supporting the body of Christ, with the help of a kneeling Nicodemus. The latter is probably a self-portrait of Titian, represented as if he saw his also upcoming death in the Christ's face. On the left, standing and forming an ideal triangle, is Mary Magdalene.. Pietà is the last painting by the Italian master Titian (c. 1575). It is housed in the Gallerie dell'Accademia of Venice. The picture represents, over the background of a larger niche in Mannerist style, the Madonna supporting the body of Christ, with the help of a kneeling Nicodemus. The latter is probably a self-portrait of Titian, represented as if he saw his also upcoming death in the Christ's face. On the left, standing and forming an ideal triangle, is Mary Magdalene. Another small self-portrait, together with his son Orazio, is shown in the base of one of the columns surrounding the niche. The picture is generally considered Titian's last: an inscription in the lower part of the picture notes that it was finished by Palma the Younger.. 
Alexander Hamilton. Author Name: John Trumbull. . . Alexander Hamilton is a 1792  full-length portrait of Alexander Hamilton by John Trumbull. It's one of multiple paintings John Trumbull made of Alexander Hamilton.In 2013, the painting was donated by Credit Suisse to both the Metropolitan Museum of Art (colloquially The Met) in New York and Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art in Bentonville, Arkansas. According to The Met, the work is considered the "greatest known portrait of Hamilton and one of the finest civic portraits from the Federal period".. Alexander Hamilton is a 1792 full-length portrait of Alexander Hamilton by John Trumbull. It's one of multiple paintings John Trumbull made of Alexander Hamilton. In 2013, the painting was donated by Credit Suisse to both the Metropolitan Museum of Art (colloquially The Met) in New York and Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art in Bentonville, Arkansas. According to The Met, the work is considered the "greatest known portrait of Hamilton and one of the finest civic portraits from the Federal period".. 
Young Girl Reading. Author Name: Jean-Honoré Fragonard. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Rococo. . Young Girl Reading, or The Reader (French: La Liseuse), is an 18th-century oil painting by Jean-Honoré Fragonard. It was purchased by the National Gallery of Art in Washington, DC in 1961 using funds donated by Ailsa Mellon Bruce, the daughter of Andrew W. Mellon, following her father's death.. Young Girl Reading, or The Reader (French: La Liseuse), is an 18th-century oil painting by Jean-Honoré Fragonard. It was purchased by the National Gallery of Art in Washington, DC in 1961 using funds donated by Ailsa Mellon Bruce, the daughter of Andrew W. Mellon, following her father's death.. 
Acacia Griffins. Author Name: Amateis, Edmond Romulus. . . Acacia Griffins are public artworks by American sculptor Edmond Amateis, located at the Acacia Building at 51 Louisiana Avenue N.W., in Washington, D.C., United States.. Acacia Griffins are public artworks by American sculptor Edmond Amateis, located at the Acacia Building at 51 Louisiana Avenue N.W., in Washington, D.C., United States.. 
Christ Crucified. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Christ Crucified is a 1632 painting by Diego Velázquez depicting the Crucifixion of Jesus. The work, painted in oil on canvas, measures 249 × 170 cm and is owned by the Museo del Prado.During his stay in Rome, Velázquez made various nude studies he used in later paintings, such as Apollo at the Forge of Vulcan (1630) and Joseph's Tunic (1630). Art critics assert that the nude study for this painting is exceptional and masterly in its fusion of serenity, dignity and nobility. It is a life-size frontal nude, without the support of a narrative scene.. Christ Crucified is a 1632 painting by Diego Velázquez depicting the Crucifixion of Jesus. The work, painted in oil on canvas, measures 249 × 170 cm and is owned by the Museo del Prado. During his stay in Rome, Velázquez made various nude studies he used in later paintings, such as Apollo at the Forge of Vulcan (1630) and Joseph's Tunic (1630). Art critics assert that the nude study for this painting is exceptional and masterly in its fusion of serenity, dignity and nobility. It is a life-size frontal nude, without the support of a narrative scene.. 
The Sortie Made by the Garrison of Gibraltar. Author Name: John Trumbull. . . The Sortie Made by the Garrison of Gibraltar (also called The Sortie made by the Garrison of Gibraltar in the Morning of the 27 of November 1781) is the title of a 1789 oil-on-canvas painting by American artist John Trumbull. The painting shows a key point in Gibraltar's history when the Great Siege of Gibraltar was undertaken by the Spanish against the British at Gibraltar in November 1781. The Spanish officer Don Jose de Barboza is being given respect as he lies dying. Although left behind by his own retreating troops he still unsuccessfully attacked the British troops with chivalry.. The Sortie Made by the Garrison of Gibraltar (also called The Sortie made by the Garrison of Gibraltar in the Morning of the 27 of November 1781) is the title of a 1789 oil-on-canvas painting by American artist John Trumbull. The painting shows a key point in Gibraltar's history when the Great Siege of Gibraltar was undertaken by the Spanish against the British at Gibraltar in November 1781. The Spanish officer Don Jose de Barboza is being given respect as he lies dying. Although left behind by his own retreating troops he still unsuccessfully attacked the British troops with chivalry.. 
Alexander Pushkin. Author Name: Bourganov, Alexander. . . Alexander Pushkin is a bronze statue by Alexander Bourganov. It is located at the corner of 22nd Street and H Street, N.W. Washington D.C. on the campus of George Washington University. It was erected as part of a cultural exchange between the cities of Moscow and Washington; in 2009, a statue of the American poet Walt Whitman was erected in Moscow. Pushkin's statue is said to be the first monument commemorating a Russian literary figure in the United States.. Alexander Pushkin is a bronze statue by Alexander Bourganov. It is located at the corner of 22nd Street and H Street, N.W. Washington D.C. on the campus of George Washington University. It was erected as part of a cultural exchange between the cities of Moscow and Washington; in 2009, a statue of the American poet Walt Whitman was erected in Moscow. Pushkin's statue is said to be the first monument commemorating a Russian literary figure in the United States. James W. Symington, then the Chairman of the American-Russian Cultural Cooperation Federation, first proposed that a statue of Alexander Pushkin be erected in Washington. Ground was broken on June 6, 1999, the 200th anniversary of Pushkin's birth. The statue was completed over the forthcoming year and dedicated on September 20, 2000, as a gift from the Government of Moscow to the city of Washington. The figure of the author is posed in front of a tall column on which stands the winged horse Pegasus, which represents "poetry and creative inspiration".. 
Little Big Painting. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Little Big Painting is a 1965 oil and Magna on canvas pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It is part of the Brushstrokes series of artworks that include several paintings and sculptures. It is located at the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York City. As with all of his Brushstrokes works, it is in part a satirical response to the gestural painting of abstract expressionism.. Little Big Painting is a 1965 oil and Magna on canvas pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It is part of the Brushstrokes series of artworks that include several paintings and sculptures. It is located at the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York City. As with all of his Brushstrokes works, it is in part a satirical response to the gestural painting of abstract expressionism.. 
Stag at Sharkey's. Author Name: George Bellows. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/American_realism. . A Stag at Sharkey's is a 1909 oil painting by George Wesley Bellows depicting two boxers fighting in the private athletic club situated across from his studio. It is part of the Ashcan School movement known in particular for depicting scenes of daily life in early twentieth century New York City, often in the city's poorer neighborhoods. Bellows used quick strokes to create a blurred image, simulating the two fighters in motion. He also chose a low point of view to put the viewer among the crowd watching the fight.. A Stag at Sharkey's is a 1909 oil painting by George Wesley Bellows depicting two boxers fighting in the private athletic club situated across from his studio. It is part of the Ashcan School movement known in particular for depicting scenes of daily life in early twentieth century New York City, often in the city's poorer neighborhoods. Bellows used quick strokes to create a blurred image, simulating the two fighters in motion. He also chose a low point of view to put the viewer among the crowd watching the fight. Participants in the boxing ring were usually members of the club, but occasionally outsiders would fight with temporary memberships. These fighters were known as "stags". The painting has been a part of the Cleveland Museum of Art's permanent collection since 1922.. 
The Haywain Triptych. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . The Haywain Triptych is a panel painting by Hieronymus Bosch, currently housed in the Museo del Prado, Madrid, Spain. A date of around 1516 has been established by means of dendrochronological research. The central panel, signed "Jheronimus Bosch", measures 135 by 200 centimeters and the wings measure 147 x 66 cm. The outside shutters feature a version of Bosch's The Wayfarer.. The Haywain Triptych is a panel painting by Hieronymus Bosch, currently housed in the Museo del Prado, Madrid, Spain. A date of around 1516 has been established by means of dendrochronological research. The central panel, signed "Jheronimus Bosch", measures 135 by 200 centimeters and the wings measure 147 x 66 cm. The outside shutters feature a version of Bosch's The Wayfarer.. 
Las Meninas. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Las Meninas is a series of 58 paintings that Pablo Picasso painted in 1957 by performing a comprehensive analysis, reinterpreting and recreating several times Las Meninas by Diego Velázquez. The suite is fully preserved at the Museu Picasso in Barcelona and is the only complete series of the artist that remains together. This is a very extensive survey work which consists of 45 performances of the original picture, nine scenes of a dove, three landscapes and a portrait of Jacqueline.. Las Meninas is a series of 58 paintings that Pablo Picasso painted in 1957 by performing a comprehensive analysis, reinterpreting and recreating several times Las Meninas by Diego Velázquez. The suite is fully preserved at the Museu Picasso in Barcelona and is the only complete series of the artist that remains together. This is a very extensive survey work which consists of 45 performances of the original picture, nine scenes of a dove, three landscapes and a portrait of Jacqueline. Picasso himself understood this series as a whole and as such donated it to the museum in Barcelona in May 1968 in memory of Jaime Sabartés who died the same year. Picasso said to Sabartés in 1950:. 
Portrait of a Cardinal. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Portrait of a Cardinal is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael. It is housed in the Prado Museum in Madrid.The Cardinal has been identified as either Alidosi, Bibbiena, Cybo or Trivulzio, in the court of Pope Julius II.Painted in Rome, Rafael mastered the art of realism in his paintings, the ability to “paint people as more real than they really are,” as his peers put it.The painting was acquired by Carlos IV of Spain (1748–1819) in Rome, while the latter was still a prince.The picture was attributed to Antonio Moro, due to its technique, considered unusual in Raphael.. The Portrait of a Cardinal is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael. It is housed in the Prado Museum in Madrid. The Cardinal has been identified as either Alidosi, Bibbiena, Cybo or Trivulzio, in the court of Pope Julius II. Painted in Rome, Rafael mastered the art of realism in his paintings, the ability to “paint people as more real than they really are,” as his peers put it. Like Leonardo da Vinci’s Mona Lisa, the subject is seated, with formation of a triangle pyramid by the subjects' body and arms. The contrasts are striking between the red of his hat, whiteness of his sleeve and his face. Meticulous brushstrokes give the audience a three-dimensional character, revealing Rapahel’s interest in sculpture during those years. The painting was acquired by Carlos IV of Spain (1748–1819) in Rome, while the latter was still a prince. The picture was attributed to Antonio Moro, due to its technique, considered unusual in Raphael.. 
Two Girls Dressing a Kitten by Candlelight. Author Name: Joseph Wright. . . Two Girls Dressing a Kitten by Candlelight (also known as Dressing the Kitten) (c. 1768–70) is a "fancy painting" by Joseph Wright of Derby (1734–97). The picture is one of a number of candlelit studies made by Wright that demonstrate his skill in the use of chiaroscuro in which he specialised. Apparently an innocent scene of little girls dressing a kitten, the picture has been thought by art historians to have a number of deeper meanings.. Two Girls Dressing a Kitten by Candlelight (also known as Dressing the Kitten) (c. 1768–70) is a "fancy painting" by Joseph Wright of Derby (1734–97). The picture is one of a number of candlelit studies made by Wright that demonstrate his skill in the use of chiaroscuro in which he specialised. Apparently an innocent scene of little girls dressing a kitten, the picture has been thought by art historians to have a number of deeper meanings.. 
Eagles and Prey. Author Name: Christophe Fratin. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Animalier. . Eagles and Prey is an outdoor bronze sculpture by Christophe Fratin, located in Central Park in Manhattan, New York. Created in 1850 and installed in Central Park in 1863, it is the oldest known sculpture in any New York City park.. Eagles and Prey is an outdoor bronze sculpture by Christophe Fratin, located in Central Park in Manhattan, New York. Created in 1850 and installed in Central Park in 1863, it is the oldest known sculpture in any New York City park.. 
Portrait of Professor Benjamin H. Rand. Author Name: Thomas Eakins. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Portrait of Professor Benjamin H. Rand is an 1874 painting by Thomas Eakins. It is oil on canvas and depicts Benjamin H. Rand, a doctor at Jefferson Medical College who taught Eakins anatomy. In the painting, Rand is reading a book while petting a cat.The portrait was the first Eakins made of someone outside his family. It is a prelude to what he considered his most important painting, The Gross Clinic (1875). Rand donated it to Jefferson Medical College when he retired.. Portrait of Professor Benjamin H. Rand is an 1874 painting by Thomas Eakins. It is oil on canvas and depicts Benjamin H. Rand, a doctor at Jefferson Medical College who taught Eakins anatomy. In the painting, Rand is reading a book while petting a cat. The portrait was the first Eakins made of someone outside his family. It is a prelude to what he considered his most important painting, The Gross Clinic (1875). Rand donated it to Jefferson Medical College when he retired. It was purchased by Alice L. Walton for an estimated US$20 million in April 2007, to be housed at the Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art.. 
A Landscape with a Ruined Castle and a Church. Author Name: Jacob van Ruisdael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_Golden_Age_painting. . A Landscape with a Ruined Castle and a Church (c. 1665) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch landscape painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the National Gallery.This scene is very similar to other paintings Ruisdael made in this period.. A Landscape with a Ruined Castle and a Church (c. 1665) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch landscape painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the National Gallery. This painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1911, who wrote; "136. Landscape with Cornfields, and Sheep and Figures. Sm. 214. A far-reaching view across an open plain varied with woods, meadows, and cornfields, villages and churches amid trees, cottages and windmills. In front are the ruins of a castle with a stagnant moat, fringed with trees and underwood. On the left a winding road passes a cornfield with sheaves and a group of trees and is lost in the distance. A shepherd sits on the old castle-wall, conversing with a youth seated on the ground, near a dog and three sheep. On a bastion, on the other side, are three sheep ; in a breach of the bastion stands a man. On a pool are three swans. The figures and cattle are by A. van de Velde. A thunderstorm has just passed over. In the sky are masses of rolling cloud, through which sunbeams fall on windmills in the distance. The rest of the landscape is in partial shadow. "This capital picture may be cited as a chef d'oeuvre of the artist in this peculiar department of landscape-painting " (Sm.). [Compare 775, 776.] Canvas, 43 inches by 57 inches. Exhibited at Manchester, 1857, No. 699, by R. Sanderson. Sale. Jan Gildemeester, Amsterdam, June 11, 1800, No. 190 (315 florins, Tays). In the collection of the Marquis de Marialva, Paris, 1825 ; bought privately by Sm. Sales. John Smith, London, 1828 (£472 : 10s.). Abrahams, London, 1831 (£275). In the collection of Richard Sanderson, London, 1835 (Sm.). Sale. R. Sanderson, London, June 17, 1848 (£504, Brown) ; but apparently bought in, for it was in the Sanderson collection in 1854 (Waagen, ii. 288), and was lent from it to Manchester in 1857. " This scene is very similar to other paintings Ruisdael made in this period.. 
Saying Grace. Author Name: Norman Rockwell. . . Saying Grace is a 1951 painting by Norman Rockwell, painted for the cover of The Saturday Evening Post's November 24, 1951, Thanksgiving issue.The painting depicts an old woman and a young boy saying grace in a crowded restaurant, as they are observed by other people at their table. Rockwell's inspiration for Saying Grace came from a Saturday Evening Post reader who saw a Mennonite family praying in a restaurant. Rockwell used his son, Jarvis, as one of the models for the painting. Elizabeth Goldberg, director of American Art at Sotheby's said that in his preparations for Saying Grace Rockwell "... visited Automats and diners in New York and Philadelphia to get the scene just right ... his imagery was so vivid people would say they recognized the diner even though it didn't exist, each pai. Saying Grace is a 1951 painting by Norman Rockwell, painted for the cover of The Saturday Evening Post's November 24, 1951, Thanksgiving issue. The painting depicts an old woman and a young boy saying grace in a crowded restaurant, as they are observed by other people at their table. Rockwell's inspiration for Saying Grace came from a Saturday Evening Post reader who saw a Mennonite family praying in a restaurant. Rockwell used his son, Jarvis, as one of the models for the painting. Elizabeth Goldberg, director of American Art at Sotheby's said that in his preparations for Saying Grace Rockwell "... visited Automats and diners in New York and Philadelphia to get the scene just right ... his imagery was so vivid people would say they recognized the diner even though it didn't exist, each painting felt so universal." Rockwell took the table and chairs from a diner in Times Square for the photo shoot for the painting. In preparations for a painting Rockwell would set up a scene, using his friends and neighbors, taking hundreds of photos until satisfied. Rockwell would produce sketches in charcoal, then oil sketches, before painting the final image. Rockwell was paid $3,500 ($31.9 thousand as of 2016) for Saying Grace. Readers of The Saturday Evening Post voted Saying Grace their favorite ever cover in 1955. Saying Grace had been on a long term loan at the Norman Rockwell Museum, and had been exhibited at 12 other museums across the United States before its 2013 sale.. 
The Fifth Plague of Egypt. Author Name: J. M. W. Turner. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . The Fifth Plague of Egypt is an oil painting by Romantic English artist Joseph Mallord William Turner currently in the permanent collection at the Indianapolis Museum of Art. Despite its title, it depicts Moses cursing the Egyptians with a plague of hail and fire, known as the seventh plague.. The Fifth Plague of Egypt is an oil painting by Romantic English artist Joseph Mallord William Turner currently in the permanent collection at the Indianapolis Museum of Art. Despite its title, it depicts Moses cursing the Egyptians with a plague of hail and fire, known as the seventh plague.. 
Sponsa de Libano. Author Name: Sir Edward Burne-Jones, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Aestheticism. . Sponsa de Libano (The Bride of Lebanon) is a painting by the Pre-Raphaelite artist Edward Burne-Jones dated 1891.The painting is based on extracts from the Song of Solomon in the Bible. "Come with me from Lebanon, my spouse ..." "Awake, O north wind; and come thou south; blow upon my garden ..." It shows the bride walking in the garden with female personifications of the two winds blowing towards her. On each side of the bride are white lilies, symbolising her virginity. The pose of the bride is inspired by Botticelli's figures. The painting is based on an earlier design by Burne-Jones for a tapestry.. Sponsa de Libano (The Bride of Lebanon) is a painting by the Pre-Raphaelite artist Edward Burne-Jones dated 1891. The painting is based on extracts from the Song of Solomon in the Bible. "Come with me from Lebanon, my spouse ..." "Awake, O north wind; and come thou south; blow upon my garden ..." It shows the bride walking in the garden with female personifications of the two winds blowing towards her. On each side of the bride are white lilies, symbolising her virginity. The pose of the bride is inspired by Botticelli's figures. The painting is based on an earlier design by Burne-Jones for a tapestry. Sponsa de Libano forms part of the Victorian collection in the Walker Art Gallery, Liverpool, Merseyside, England. It is painted in gouache and tempera on paper and measures 332.5 centimetres (131 in) by 155.5 centimetres (61 in). The picture was purchased by the gallery in 1896. In the same year the gallery purchased a study for the painting. This had been prepared in about 1891, drawn in chalk on paper, and shows the head used for one of the winds. The model was a twelve-year-old Jewish girl, who modelled for both winds, and was told to "look wild and blow with your lips". The study is now held by the Lady Lever Art Gallery in Port Sunlight, Merseyside.. 
Bridge Tender's House. Author Name: Kim, Mikyoung. . . Bridge Tender's House is a public artwork by American artist Mikyoung Kim, located on the 14th Street Bridge in Washington, D.C., United States. "Bridge Tender's House" was commissioned through DC Commission on the Arts and Humanities.. Bridge Tender's House is a public artwork by American artist Mikyoung Kim, located on the 14th Street Bridge in Washington, D.C., United States. "Bridge Tender's House" was commissioned through DC Commission on the Arts and Humanities.. 
The Button. Author Name: Claes Oldenburg. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . The Button (officially, Split Button) is a modern art sculpture that lies at the center of campus at the University of Pennsylvania. It was designed by Swedish sculptor Claes Oldenburg, who specializes in creating oversize sculptures of everyday objects.. The Button (officially, Split Button) is a modern art sculpture that lies at the center of campus at the University of Pennsylvania. It was designed by Swedish sculptor Claes Oldenburg, who specializes in creating oversize sculptures of everyday objects.. 
Untitled. Author Name: Shapiro, Joel. . . Untitled, 1989, is a bronze abstract sculpture by Joel Shapiro.Constructed in 1989, it is located at the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden.. Untitled, 1989, is a bronze abstract sculpture by Joel Shapiro. Constructed in 1989, it is located at the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden.. 
Expressionist Head. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Expressionist Head by pop artist Roy Lichtenstein is the name associated with several 1980s works of art. It is widely associated with a set of six identical sculptures but is also associated with a series of paintings.. Expressionist Head by pop artist Roy Lichtenstein is the name associated with several 1980s works of art. It is widely associated with a set of six identical sculptures but is also associated with a series of paintings.. 
El Rio de Luz. Author Name: Frederic Edwin Church. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Hudson_River_School. . El Rio de Luz (The River of Light) (1887) is an oil on canvas landscape by Frederic Edwin Church acquired by the National Gallery of Art in 1965. According to the NGA, the work is a "fanciful pastiche" of the many sketches and drawings Church made while traveling in South America in 1857. The NGA notes that "the tightly focused realism, the overall tonal harmony and restrained coloration, and the compositional unity all lend a remarkable cohesiveness to the work." William Earl Dodge, Jr. (d. 1903) was the original owner of the work and passed it to his descendants. In 1965, it was given to the Preservation Society of Newport County, Rhode Island, and purchased in December 1965 by the National Gallery of Art. The painting was restored in 1988.. El Rio de Luz (The River of Light) (1887) is an oil on canvas landscape by Frederic Edwin Church acquired by the National Gallery of Art in 1965. According to the NGA, the work is a "fanciful pastiche" of the many sketches and drawings Church made while traveling in South America in 1857. The NGA notes that "the tightly focused realism, the overall tonal harmony and restrained coloration, and the compositional unity all lend a remarkable cohesiveness to the work." William Earl Dodge, Jr. (d. 1903) was the original owner of the work and passed it to his descendants. In 1965, it was given to the Preservation Society of Newport County, Rhode Island, and purchased in December 1965 by the National Gallery of Art. The painting was restored in 1988.. 
Madonna and Child with Angels. Author Name: Masaccio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Madonna and Child with Angels is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Masaccio, who worked in collaboration with his brother Giovanni and with Andrea di Giusto.The painting is the central panel of the Pisa Altarpiece, a large multi-paneled altarpiece executed for the chapel of St. Julian, owned by the notary Giuliano di Colino in the church of Santa Maria del Carmine in Pisa. The painting is in a very damaged state, the altarpiece having been cut up and sold in pieces long ago. Today the panel is smaller than its original state; it has lost perhaps as much as 8 cm. at the bottom and 2-2.5 cm. at each side. Eleven surviving panels of the altarpiece, which is the only documented work by Masaccio, are in various museums. Scholars hypothesize the reconstruction of the altarpiece b. The Madonna and Child with Angels is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Masaccio, who worked in collaboration with his brother Giovanni and with Andrea di Giusto. The painting is the central panel of the Pisa Altarpiece, a large multi-paneled altarpiece executed for the chapel of St. Julian, owned by the notary Giuliano di Colino in the church of Santa Maria del Carmine in Pisa. The painting is in a very damaged state, the altarpiece having been cut up and sold in pieces long ago. Today the panel is smaller than its original state; it has lost perhaps as much as 8 cm. at the bottom and 2-2.5 cm. at each side. Eleven surviving panels of the altarpiece, which is the only documented work by Masaccio, are in various museums. Scholars hypothesize the reconstruction of the altarpiece based on a very complete description by Vasari. The painting contains six figures: the Madonna and Child and four angels. The Madonna is the centre figure and is larger than any of the others to signify her importance. Christ sits on her knees, eating grapes offered to him by his mother. Although he is an exceedingly babyish baby (in comparison to the babies of Masaccio's immediate predecessors, like Lorenzo Monaco or Gentile da Fabriano), the grapes are a symbol of his blood – like the red wine of Communion – which indicates Christ's awareness of his eventual death. The Madonna looks sorrowfully at her child, as she also realises his fate. Originally a panel of the Crucifixion stood above this painting, underlining the sacrificial (Eucharistic) nature of the image. In many ways the style of the painting is traditional; the expensive gold background and ultramarine draperies of the Virgin, her enlarged scale, and her hierarchical presentation (ceremoniously enthroned) all fit within the late-medieval formulas for the representation of Mary and Jesus in glory. In other ways, however, the painting is a step away from International Gothic in the sense that Masaccio has created a more realistic approach to the subject: Masaccio has used linear perspective to create pictorial space; it can be seen on the orthogonal on the cornice of her throne. The vanishing point is at the child's foot. The reason for this is that the work was originally located above a representation of the Adoration of the Magi, in which one of the magi kisses Jesus' foot. Although the paintings are noticeably different (the subjects are clothed differently and on different chairs) the Madonna is more or less in the same position in both works. This parallelism is designed to make viewers have the same attitude as the magus when looking at the Madonna and Child. They are imagined to be kneeling in front of Mary, and could easily lean forward to kiss the foot of Jesus. Masaccio has also used the overlapping of figures and objects to create pictorial space, like the two angels in the foreground overlapping the throne and the throne overlapping the two angels in the background.. 
Andromeda Chained to the Rocks. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Andromeda Chained to the Rocks was painted by Rembrandt in approximately 1630, and is now in the Mauritshuis, in The Hague.Andromeda represents Rembrandt's first full length mythological female nude history painting and is taken from a story in Ovid's Metamorphoses. This story is about the daughter of an Ethiopian king who, as punishment for her mother's boasting, was chained to a rock to be sacrificed to a sea monster that was tormenting the Ethiopian people.Rembrandt's subsequent nude mythological paintings from this period Diana Bathing and Danaë show his evolving portrayal of the nude.. Andromeda Chained to the Rocks was painted by Rembrandt in approximately 1630, and is now in the Mauritshuis, in The Hague. Andromeda represents Rembrandt's first full length mythological female nude history painting and is taken from a story in Ovid's Metamorphoses. This story is about the daughter of an Ethiopian king who, as punishment for her mother's boasting, was chained to a rock to be sacrificed to a sea monster that was tormenting the Ethiopian people. Many artists such as Titian have depicted this story by showing Andromeda, her rescuer Perseus, and the sea monster all in the same composition. In this work, Rembrandt shies away from classical conventions by showing her not as a glamorous beauty but as a frightened naturalistic looking girl. No other figure is included, but her alarmed look out of the picture space to the right creates narrative tension. The painting is an example of Rembrandt's rejection of idealized beauty. Since he did not believe true beauty existed naturally, he painted women as he saw them; naturally imperfect and flawed. Rembrandt's subsequent nude mythological paintings from this period Diana Bathing and Danaë show his evolving portrayal of the nude.. 
Game of Bowls. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . Game of Bowls is a 1908 painting by the French artist Henri Matisse. The painting shows three young men, probably Matisse's sons and nephew, playing a game of Boules. Matisse sees the game as a manifestation of man's creativity, and an instrument to use in understanding the codes of life. The painting is part of Matisse's series on man's "Golden Age" and was part of Sergei Shchukin's collection before the October Revolution of 1917. It is now in the collection of The Hermitage, St. Petersburg, Russia.. Game of Bowls is a 1908 painting by the French artist Henri Matisse. The painting shows three young men, probably Matisse's sons and nephew, playing a game of Boules. Matisse sees the game as a manifestation of man's creativity, and an instrument to use in understanding the codes of life. The painting is part of Matisse's series on man's "Golden Age" and was part of Sergei Shchukin's collection before the October Revolution of 1917. It is now in the collection of The Hermitage, St. Petersburg, Russia.. 
Magna Carta. Author Name: Cornelia Parker. . . Magna Carta (An Embroidery) is a 2015 work by English installation artist Cornelia Parker. The artwork is an embroidered representation of the complete text and images of an online encyclopedia article for Magna Carta, as it appeared in Wikipedia on 15 June 2014, the 799th anniversary of the document.The work includes a tea stain from a prisoner and a spot of blood from Guardian editor Alan Rusbridger, who accidentally pricked his finger while sewing.. Magna Carta (An Embroidery) is a 2015 work by English installation artist Cornelia Parker. The artwork is an embroidered representation of the complete text and images of an online encyclopedia article for Magna Carta, as it appeared in Wikipedia on 15 June 2014, the 799th anniversary of the document. The hand-stitched embroidery is 1.5 metres wide and nearly 13 metres long. It is a response to the legacy of Magna Carta in the digital era and Parker has referred to it as "a snapshot of where the debate is right now", the result of all open edits by Wikipedians up to that date. It was commissioned by the Ruskin School of Art at the University of Oxford in partnership with the British Library, after being chosen from proposals from a shortlist of artists in February 2014. Parker used a screenshot from the 15 June 2014 English Wikipedia article for Magna Carta and printed it onto fabric. Like Wikipedia, the embroidery was created through the collaboration of many individuals. It was divided in 87 sections and sent to 200 individuals who each hand-stitched portions of the artwork. She sought the collaboration of people and groups that have been affected by and associated with Magna Carta. The majority of the text was sewn by prisoners. Members of the Embroiderers' Guild stitched the images, with at least one embroiderer selected from each region of the UK. Many celebrities and public figures also contributed, stitching phrases or words of special significance to them. Parker has represented the work as "Echoing the communal activity that resulted in the Bayeux Tapestry, but on this occasion placing more emphasis on the word rather than the image, I wanted to create an artwork that is a contemporary interpretation of Magna Carta." The work includes a tea stain from a prisoner and a spot of blood from Guardian editor Alan Rusbridger, who accidentally pricked his finger while sewing. Magna Carta (An Embroidery) is part of an exhibition celebrating the 800th anniversary of Magna Carta. It was displayed in the Entrance Hall of the British Library from 15 May until 24 July 2015 and in the Blackwell Hall of the Bodleian Library, Oxford from 11 November 2015 to 3 January 2016, touring other United Kingdom locations in the rest of 2016 and 2017.. 
Elective Affinities. Author Name: René Magritte. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Surrealism. . Elective Affinities (French: Les affinités électives) is a 1933 painting by the Belgian surrealist René Magritte. The title is taken from the Johann Wolfgang von Goethe book Elective Affinities.Magritte had the following to say about this work:. Elective Affinities (French: Les affinités électives) is a 1933 painting by the Belgian surrealist René Magritte. The title is taken from the Johann Wolfgang von Goethe book Elective Affinities. Magritte had the following to say about this work:. 
First Reading of the Emancipation Proclamation of President Lincoln. Author Name: Francis Bicknell Carpenter. . . First Reading of the Emancipation Proclamation of President Lincoln is an 1864 oil-on-canvas painting by Francis Bicknell Carpenter. In the painting, Carpenter depicts Abraham Lincoln, the 16th President of the United States, and his Cabinet members reading over the Emancipation Proclamation, which proclaimed the freedom of slaves in the ten states rebelling against the Union in the American Civil War. Lincoln presented the Emancipation Proclamation to his Cabinet on July 22, 1862, and issued the Proclamation on September 22, 1862, which took effect on January 1, 1863.. First Reading of the Emancipation Proclamation of President Lincoln is an 1864 oil-on-canvas painting by Francis Bicknell Carpenter. In the painting, Carpenter depicts Abraham Lincoln, the 16th President of the United States, and his Cabinet members reading over the Emancipation Proclamation, which proclaimed the freedom of slaves in the ten states rebelling against the Union in the American Civil War. Lincoln presented the Emancipation Proclamation to his Cabinet on July 22, 1862, and issued the Proclamation on September 22, 1862, which took effect on January 1, 1863. Carpenter spent six months in the White House while he painted. The painting is displayed at the United States Capitol in Washington, D.C... 
The First Mourning. Author Name: William-Adolphe Bouguereau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The First Mourning (in French Premier Deuil) is an oil on canvas painted in 1888 by William-Adolphe Bouguereau. Its dimensions are: 79 7/8 × 99 1/8 inches (203 × 252 cm). This piece of art can be seen at the Museo Nacional de Bellas Artes (Spanish for National Museum of Fine Arts) in Buenos Aires, Argentina.This work depicts the moment after Adam and Eve just found the body of their son Abel, who was murdered by Cain. This is the first human death recorded in the Bible.William-Adolphe Bouguereau had suffered the loss of his second son shortly before painting this work.. The First Mourning (in French Premier Deuil) is an oil on canvas painted in 1888 by William-Adolphe Bouguereau. Its dimensions are: 79 7/8 × 99 1/8 inches (203 × 252 cm). This piece of art can be seen at the Museo Nacional de Bellas Artes (Spanish for National Museum of Fine Arts) in Buenos Aires, Argentina. This work depicts the moment after Adam and Eve just found the body of their son Abel, who was murdered by Cain. This is the first human death recorded in the Bible. William-Adolphe Bouguereau had suffered the loss of his second son shortly before painting this work. Its original name is "Premier Deuil", in French, of which "The First Mourning" is a literal translation.. 
Sleeping Girl. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Sleeping Girl is a 1964 oil and Magna on canvas pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It held the record for the highest auction price for a Lichtenstein painting from May 2012 until May 2013.The painting is based on a panel from the romance comic Girls' Romances #105 published by DC National Comics in 1964.. Sleeping Girl is a 1964 oil and Magna on canvas pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It held the record for the highest auction price for a Lichtenstein painting from May 2012 until May 2013. The painting is based on a panel from the romance comic Girls' Romances #105 published by DC National Comics in 1964. On May 9, 2012, the comic painting Sleeping Girl (1964) from the collection of Beatrice and Phillip Gersh established a new Lichtenstein record $44.8 million at Sotheby's. The Gershes were instrumental in the modern and contemporary art movements in Southern California, especially as founding members of The Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles (MOCA). The previous record for a Lichtenstein work had been established in November 2011 when I Can See the Whole Room...and There's Nobody in It! sold for $43.2 million. The record was surpassed the following year when Woman with Flowered Hat sold for $56.1 million, including fees, on May 15, 2013. Measuring 91.4 cm × 91.4 cm (36 in × 36 in), Sleeping Girl was purchased in 1964 from the Ferus Gallery and was not sold until May 9, 2012. From April through July 1967 it was exhibited at the Pasadena Art Museum and Walker Art Center as part of the Roy Lichtenstein exhibition. Then, it was shown from November 1989 to March 1990 at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles. After 1963, Lichtenstein's comics-based women "...look hard, crisp, brittle, and uniformly modish in appearance, as if they all came out of the same pot of makeup." This particular example is one of several that are cropped so closely that the hair flows beyond the edges of the canvas. The work is noted for its use of one of art's most classic subjects: the sleeping female muse.. 
View of Toledo. Author Name: El Greco. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . View of Toledo, is one of the two surviving landscapes painted by El Greco. The other, View and Plan of Toledo lies at Museo Del Greco, Toledo, Spain.View of Toledo is among the best known depictions of the sky in Western art, along with Vincent van Gogh's The Starry Night and the landscapes of William Turner and Monet, among others. Most notable is the distinct color contrast between the dark and somber skies above and the glowing green hills below. While influenced by the Mannerist style, El Greco's expressive handling of color and form is without parallel in the history of art. In this painting, he takes liberties with the actual layout of Toledo insofar as certain building locations are re-arranged. However, the location of the Castle of San Servando, on the right, is accurately depict. View of Toledo, is one of the two surviving landscapes painted by El Greco. The other, View and Plan of Toledo lies at Museo Del Greco, Toledo, Spain. View of Toledo is among the best known depictions of the sky in Western art, along with Vincent van Gogh's The Starry Night and the landscapes of William Turner and Monet, among others. Most notable is the distinct color contrast between the dark and somber skies above and the glowing green hills below. While influenced by the Mannerist style, El Greco's expressive handling of color and form is without parallel in the history of art. In this painting, he takes liberties with the actual layout of Toledo insofar as certain building locations are re-arranged. However, the location of the Castle of San Servando, on the right, is accurately depicted. El Greco's signature appears in the lower-right corner.. 
Passy, Bridges of Paris. Author Name: Albert Gleizes. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_art. . Passy, Bridges of Paris, also called Les ponts de Paris (Passy), or Paysage à Passy, is a painting created in 1912 by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes. The work was exhibited at the Salon de la Société Normande de Peinture Moderne, Rouen, 1912 (titled Passy); the Salon de la Section d'Or, Galerie La Boétie, Paris, 1912 (titled Passy); Manes Moderni Umeni, Vystava, Prague, 1914 (titled Paysage à Passy); and Galerie Der Sturm, Berlin, July, 1914.. Passy, Bridges of Paris, also called Les ponts de Paris (Passy), or Paysage à Passy, is a painting created in 1912 by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes. The work was exhibited at the Salon de la Société Normande de Peinture Moderne, Rouen, 1912 (titled Passy); the Salon de la Section d'Or, Galerie La Boétie, Paris, 1912 (titled Passy); Manes Moderni Umeni, Vystava, Prague, 1914 (titled Paysage à Passy); and Galerie Der Sturm, Berlin, July, 1914. Passy was one of a small group of works chosen to be reproduced in the seminal treatise Du "Cubisme", written by Albert Gleizes and Jean Metzinger in 1912 and published by Eugène Figuière the same year. Executed in a highly personal Cubist style with multiple viewpoints and planar faceting, this is one of a number of paintings from 1912-13 involving the theme of the bridge in an urban landscape. In opposition to classical perspective as a mode of representation, Gleizes employed a new spatial model based in part on the pictorial space of the mathematician Henri Poincaré. This painting, in the collection of the Museum Moderner Kunst (mumok), Vienna, probably refers to the spirit of solidarity among the newly formed "Artists of Passy", during a time when factions had begun to develop within Cubism.. 
Portrait of the Infante Don Carlos. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Portrait of the Infante Don Carlos is a 1626/27 oil painting of Don Carlos of Spain (brother to Philip IV of Spain), produced by Diego Velázquez as one of the first paintings he produced during his stay in Madrid. It is now in the Prado.Its subject is in a relaxed and elegant pose, wearing a black costume with grey braids and a thick gold shoulder chain with the Order of the Golden Fleece and holding a hat in his left hand and a glove in his right. The figure appears in the darkest point of the space and the artist added a 4 cm strip on each sides to add to its sense of authoritarianism.. Portrait of the Infante Don Carlos is a 1626/27 oil painting of Don Carlos of Spain (brother to Philip IV of Spain), produced by Diego Velázquez as one of the first paintings he produced during his stay in Madrid. It is now in the Prado. Its subject is in a relaxed and elegant pose, wearing a black costume with grey braids and a thick gold shoulder chain with the Order of the Golden Fleece and holding a hat in his left hand and a glove in his right. The figure appears in the darkest point of the space and the artist added a 4 cm strip on each sides to add to its sense of authoritarianism.. 
T.A. Chapman Memorial. Author Name: Daniel Chester French. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/American_Renaissance. . T.A. Chapman Memorial is a public artwork by American artist Daniel Chester French. It is located at 2405 W. Forest Home Ave., in the Forest Home Cemetery Section 36 or 33 in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States. The bronze sculpture was cast in 1896. Its dimensions are 62 x 41 x 23 in. The concrete base it stands on is 13 ½ x 21 7/8 x 14 3/8 in.. T.A. Chapman Memorial is a public artwork by American artist Daniel Chester French. It is located at 2405 W. Forest Home Ave., in the Forest Home Cemetery Section 36 or 33 in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States. The bronze sculpture was cast in 1896. Its dimensions are 62 x 41 x 23 in. The concrete base it stands on is 13 ½ x 21 7/8 x 14 3/8 in.. 
Grön eld. Author Name: Lindstrand, Vicke. . . Grön eld (English: Fire in Green) is a glass sculpture by Vicke Lindstrand at Järnvägstorget, which is located in front of Umeå Central Station, in Umeå, Sweden. It was, at nine meters, the tallest glass sculpture in the world at the time of its inauguration in 1970.. Grön eld (English: Fire in Green) is a glass sculpture by Vicke Lindstrand at Järnvägstorget, which is located in front of Umeå Central Station, in Umeå, Sweden. It was, at nine meters, the tallest glass sculpture in the world at the time of its inauguration in 1970.. 
Epifania. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Epifania (Italian - Epiphany) is a cartoon or full-scale drawing in black chalk by Michelangelo, produced in Rome around 1550–1553. It is 2.32 metres tall by 1.65 m wide, and is made up of 26 sheets of paper.. Epifania (Italian - Epiphany) is a cartoon or full-scale drawing in black chalk by Michelangelo, produced in Rome around 1550–1553. It is 2.32 metres tall by 1.65 m wide, and is made up of 26 sheets of paper. The composition shows the Virgin Mary, with the Christ child sitting between her legs. An adult male figure to the right, probably St Joseph, is pushed away by Mary. In front of him is the infant St John the Baptist. The adult figure standing to Mary's left is unidentified, as are other figures only just visible in the background. Michelangelo repeatedly changed the composition and its forms, as is apparent in the cartoon's alterations. The composition was originally thought to be of the Three Kings, which may be the reason for the title, but is now understood as referring to Christ's siblings mentioned in the Gospels (explained by Saint Epiphanias—another possible source for the title—as Joseph's sons by a previous marriage, and hence Mary's stepsons, leaving their marriage unconsummated—hence her pushing Joseph away—and Mary forever a virgin). Michelangelo's biographer Ascanio Condivi used this cartoon for an unfinished painting. A 19th-century Scottish collector, John Malcolm of Poltalloch, bought it for only £11 0s 6d. and, on John's death in 1893, his son John Wingfield Malcolm gave it to the British Museum. Parliament voted £25,000 to purchase the rest of his collection for the museum two years later. The cartoon is on display in Gallery 90 of the Museum.. 
The Boy. Author Name: Amedeo Modigliani. . . The Boy is an oil painting by Italian artist Amedeo Modigliani created in 1919. It is currently part of the permanent collection at the Indianapolis Museum of Art.. The Boy is an oil painting by Italian artist Amedeo Modigliani created in 1919. It is currently part of the permanent collection at the Indianapolis Museum of Art.. 
The Wheat Field, Sunrise. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . The Wheat Field is a series of oil paintings executed by Vincent van Gogh in Saint-Rémy-de-Provence. All of them depict the view Van Gogh had from the window of his bedroom on the top floor of the asylum: a field enclosed by stone walls just beneath his window and excluded from normal life by the rear wall of the asylum grounds; beyond this enclosure farm land, accompanied by olive groves and vineyards, ran up to the hills at the foot of the mountain range called Les Alpilles.. The Wheat Field is a series of oil paintings executed by Vincent van Gogh in Saint-Rémy-de-Provence. All of them depict the view Van Gogh had from the window of his bedroom on the top floor of the asylum: a field enclosed by stone walls just beneath his window and excluded from normal life by the rear wall of the asylum grounds; beyond this enclosure farm land, accompanied by olive groves and vineyards, ran up to the hills at the foot of the mountain range called Les Alpilles. From May 1889 to May 1890, Van Gogh recorded this view in changing settings: after a storm, with a reaper in the field, with fresh wheat raising in autumn and with flowers in the spring. This is one of Van Gogh's major series from Saint-Rémy, comprising wonderful works such as the Wheat Field at Sunrise in the Kröller-Müller Museum. Van Gogh included the Enclosed Field with Rising Sun (F737) made in December 1889 in his Display at Les XX 1890 in Brussels. Van Gogh worked on a group of paintings "The Wheat Field" that he could see from his cell at Saint-Paul Hospital. From the studio room he could see a field of wheat, enclosed by a wall. Beyond that were the mountains from Arles. During his stay at the asylum he made about twelve paintings of the view of the enclosed wheat field and distant mountains. In May Van Gogh wrote to Theo, "Through the iron-barred window I see a square field of wheat in an enclosure, a perspective like Van Goyen, above which I see the morning sun rising in all its glory." The stone wall, like a picture frame, helped to display the changing colors of the wheat field.. 
The Source. Author Name: Sorel Etrog. . . The Source is a public art work by artist Sorel Etrog located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture's abstract form is horizontally oriented; it is installed on the lawn.. The Source is a public art work by artist Sorel Etrog located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture's abstract form is horizontally oriented; it is installed on the lawn.. 
Don Quixote. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Don Quixote is a 1955 sketch by Pablo Picasso of the Spanish literary hero and his sidekick, Sancho Panza. It was featured on the August 18–24 issue of the French weekly journal Les Lettres Françaises in celebration of the 350th anniversary of the first part of Cervantes’s Don Quixote. Made on August 10, 1955, the drawing Don Quixote was in a very different style than Picasso’s earlier Blue, Rose, and Cubist periods.. Don Quixote is a 1955 sketch by Pablo Picasso of the Spanish literary hero and his sidekick, Sancho Panza. It was featured on the August 18–24 issue of the French weekly journal Les Lettres Françaises in celebration of the 350th anniversary of the first part of Cervantes’s Don Quixote. Made on August 10, 1955, the drawing Don Quixote was in a very different style than Picasso’s earlier Blue, Rose, and Cubist periods.. 
The Poem Tree. Author Name: Tubb, Joseph. . . The Poem Tree was a beech tree with a poem carved into it by Joseph Tubb, located on Castle Hill at Wittenham Clumps in Oxfordshire, England. The tree, which was believed to be around 300 years old, collapsed through a combination of long-standing rot and inclement weather in July 2012. It had died in the 1990s and after that, rotted completely while standing.The poem was carved in the 1840s. A stone, including a transcription and rubbing of the poem, was erected close to the tree in 1994 to commemorate the 150th anniversary of the carving.. The Poem Tree was a beech tree with a poem carved into it by Joseph Tubb, located on Castle Hill at Wittenham Clumps in Oxfordshire, England. The tree, which was believed to be around 300 years old, collapsed through a combination of long-standing rot and inclement weather in July 2012. It had died in the 1990s and after that, rotted completely while standing. The poem was carved in the 1840s. A stone, including a transcription and rubbing of the poem, was erected close to the tree in 1994 to commemorate the 150th anniversary of the carving.. 
Brooklyn Bridge. Author Name: Albert Gleizes. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_art. . Brooklyn Bridge is a 1915 painting by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes. The painting was reproduced in a photograph of Gleizes published in The Literary Digest, 27 November 1915 (p. 1225). Brooklyn Bridge was exhibited at the Montross Gallery, New York, 1916 (no. 40) along with works by Jean Crotti, Marcel Duchamp and Jean Metzinger.. Brooklyn Bridge is a 1915 painting by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes. The painting was reproduced in a photograph of Gleizes published in The Literary Digest, 27 November 1915 (p. 1225). Brooklyn Bridge was exhibited at the Montross Gallery, New York, 1916 (no. 40) along with works by Jean Crotti, Marcel Duchamp and Jean Metzinger. This is the first in a series of three highly abstract paintings by Gleizes of the Brooklyn Bridge. It was the most abstract painting of the bridge to date. Gleizes and the Italian-American artist Joseph Stella had been friends since 1915 and ihas been of interest to compare this painting with Stella's Brooklyn Bridge of 1919-20. The American collector John Quinn acquired Brooklyn Bridge and several other works by Gleizes that had been on view at Montross Gallery, either during the exhibition or subsequently. In 1927, an exhibition and sale of Quinn's art collection took place in New York City. The sale was conducted by Otto Bernet and Hiram H. Parke at the American Art Galleries. A catalogue was published for the occasion by the American Art Association. Brooklyn Bridge (n. 263 of the catalogue) was purchased at the sale for $60. Brooklyn Bridge forms part of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Founding Collection. It was gifted to the museum by Solomon Guggenheim between 1937 (the year of the formation of the foundation) and 1949, or purchased by the foundation during those years. The painting is in the permanent collection of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York City.. 
The Creation of the Sun, Moon and Vegetation. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Creation of the Sun, Moon and Vegetation, (sometimes The Creation of the Sun, Moon, and Plants or The Creation of the Sun and the Moon) is one of the frescoes from Michelangelo's nine Book of Genesis scenes on the Sistine Chapel ceiling. It is the second scene in the chronological sequence on the ceiling, depicting the third and fourth day of the Creation narrative. On the left, God is depicted from behind, extending his arm towards a bush, alluding to the plant world. On the right, God points and divides the sun and moon in the heavens (or hurls them into orbit). The faint moon is on the right side, touched by the God's left hand. The God's face expresses the stupendous force needed for the creation of the abode of living beings. The abstract patterns of drapery emphasize the motion o. The Creation of the Sun, Moon and Vegetation, (sometimes The Creation of the Sun, Moon, and Plants or The Creation of the Sun and the Moon) is one of the frescoes from Michelangelo's nine Book of Genesis scenes on the Sistine Chapel ceiling. It is the second scene in the chronological sequence on the ceiling, depicting the third and fourth day of the Creation narrative. On the left, God is depicted from behind, extending his arm towards a bush, alluding to the plant world. On the right, God points and divides the sun and moon in the heavens (or hurls them into orbit). The faint moon is on the right side, touched by the God's left hand. The God's face expresses the stupendous force needed for the creation of the abode of living beings. The abstract patterns of drapery emphasize the motion of both figures of God. The Creation of the Sun, Moon and Planets is featured on the postage stamps of Vatican City (issue of 1994) and India (issue of 1975).. 
Boating on the River Epte. Author Name: Claude Monet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Boating on the River Epte (also known as The Canoe on the Epte) is an 1890 oil painting by French impressionist artist Claude Monet. It is currently housed at the São Paulo Museum of Art.Between 1887 and 1890 Monet concerned himself with portraying scenes from the River Epte, which bathed this property at Giverny. The sisters Suzanne and Blanche Hoschedé posed for this series of pictures, their late father being banker Ernest Hoschedé, a patron of the arts and collector of Monet, and their mother, Alice, who became Monet’s second wife. This series began with La Barque Rose (private collection) and also worthy of mention are canvases La Barque à Giverny (Musée d'Orsay, Paris) and En Barque (National Museum of Western Art, Tokyo). The São Paulo Museum of Art picture, which also has a prepara. Boating on the River Epte (also known as The Canoe on the Epte) is an 1890 oil painting by French impressionist artist Claude Monet. It is currently housed at the São Paulo Museum of Art. Between 1887 and 1890 Monet concerned himself with portraying scenes from the River Epte, which bathed this property at Giverny. The sisters Suzanne and Blanche Hoschedé posed for this series of pictures, their late father being banker Ernest Hoschedé, a patron of the arts and collector of Monet, and their mother, Alice, who became Monet’s second wife. This series began with La Barque Rose (private collection) and also worthy of mention are canvases La Barque à Giverny (Musée d'Orsay, Paris) and En Barque (National Museum of Western Art, Tokyo). The São Paulo Museum of Art picture, which also has a preparatory study, was mentioned by the artist himself on a letter to critic and friend Geffroy, dated June 22, 1890: “I am again vexed by things that are impossible to do: water with undulating vegetation on the bottom”. In fact one of the more singular characteristics of The Canoe on the Epte in the Monet context is the proximity of the water, which assumes at the lower part of the composition an almost tactile reality, as if the painter for once did not want to depict the luminous reflections of its surface, but its depth. Although it belongs to a series, the masp work is in this particular a unique case. Monet here announces materiality, and it is necessary to remember that this new visual dimension of water will only be obtained again over thirty years later in his paintings of the 1918-1924 period. His friendship with photographer Nadar and his genuine interest in photography explain the framing of the composition as well as the out-of-focus effect produced by the movement of the boat on the water to be seen in the Hoschedé sisters. In addition, a possible source of the São Paulo Museum of Art composition, as has been detected, is the Harunobu engraving, titled Woman Collecting Lotus Flowers.. 
San Zeno Altarpiece. Author Name: Andrea Mantegna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The San Zeno Altarpiece is a triptych by the Italian Renaissance painter Andrea Mantegna, from c. 1457-1460. It is located in the Basilica di San Zeno, the main church of Verona. The three predellas, stripped by the French in 1797 along with the main picture (restored to Verona in 1815), are now replaced by copies. The originals are in the Louvre (Crucifixion) and in the Museum of Tours.It was probably the first good example of the Renaissance art in Verona. It was a model for painters, for example Girolamo dai Libri.. The San Zeno Altarpiece is a triptych by the Italian Renaissance painter Andrea Mantegna, from c. 1457-1460. It is located in the Basilica di San Zeno, the main church of Verona. The three predellas, stripped by the French in 1797 along with the main picture (restored to Verona in 1815), are now replaced by copies. The originals are in the Louvre (Crucifixion) and in the Museum of Tours. The work was commissioned by the Abbot Gregorio Correr. In the centre is the Madonna enthroned with the Child, portrayed according to the Byzantine iconography of the Victorious Madonna and surrounded by chanting angels. Eight saints are placed at the sides, according to the commissioner's preferences: on the left are Peter, Paul, John the Evangelist and Zeno; on the right, Benedict, Lawrence, Gregory and John the Baptist. The entire composition is full of detail referring to classical Antiquity: the frieze with the angels which hold two garlands or the throne, which reminds the viewer of a sarcophagus. The frame, probably designed by Mantegna himself, is the original one. It was probably the first good example of the Renaissance art in Verona. It was a model for painters, for example Girolamo dai Libri.. 
The Circumcision. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Circumcision is an oil on canvas painting of the Circumcision of Jesus by Peter Paul Rubens, produced in 1605 during his stay in Rome. It is now in the 'Chiesa del Gesù e dei Santi Ambrogio e Andrea' church in Genoa.It was commissioned by Marcello Pallavicino, vestryman of the Casa Professa of Jesuits in Genoa. It is mainly influenced by Mantuan paintings from the court of Vincenzo Gonzaga, with a strongly foreshortened viewpoint.. The Circumcision is an oil on canvas painting of the Circumcision of Jesus by Peter Paul Rubens, produced in 1605 during his stay in Rome. It is now in the 'Chiesa del Gesù e dei Santi Ambrogio e Andrea' church in Genoa. It was commissioned by Marcello Pallavicino, vestryman of the Casa Professa of Jesuits in Genoa. It is mainly influenced by Mantuan paintings from the court of Vincenzo Gonzaga, with a strongly foreshortened viewpoint.. 
Vase with Pink Roses. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Still Life: Vase with Pink Roses was made in 1890 by Vincent van Gogh in Saint-Rémy. At the time the work was painted Van Gogh was readying himself to leave the Saint-Rémy asylum for the quiet town of Auvers-sur-Oise outside of Paris. The painting reflects the optimism Van Gogh felt at that time about his future, both in his choice of flowers as a subject and the colors used. The painting is owned by the National Gallery of Art of Washington, D.C.. Still Life: Vase with Pink Roses was made in 1890 by Vincent van Gogh in Saint-Rémy. At the time the work was painted Van Gogh was readying himself to leave the Saint-Rémy asylum for the quiet town of Auvers-sur-Oise outside of Paris. The painting reflects the optimism Van Gogh felt at that time about his future, both in his choice of flowers as a subject and the colors used. The painting is owned by the National Gallery of Art of Washington, D.C.. 
Wisconsin. Author Name: Daniel Chester French. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/American_Renaissance. . The Wisconsin is a statue on top of the Wisconsin Capitol Building created by Daniel Chester French.. The Wisconsin is a statue on top of the Wisconsin Capitol Building created by Daniel Chester French.. 
Mr and Mrs Clark and Percy. Author Name: David Hockney. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Mr and Mrs Clark and Percy is a painting by the British artist David Hockney. Painted between 1970 and 1971, it depicts the fashion designer Ossie Clark and the textile designer Celia Birtwell shortly after their wedding at which Hockney was Clark's best man. Hockney and Clark had been friends since the early 1960s. One of their cats sits on Ossie's knee (the cat in the painting was not in fact Percy — this was the name of one of their other cats — but Hockney thought Percy made a better title than Blanche, the cat he painted). The work is in acrylic on canvas, and measures 2170 x 3084mm in its frame. The painting featured in the final 10 of the Greatest Painting in Britain Vote in 2005, the only work by a living artist to do so. The painting is in the collection of the Tate Gallery.. Mr and Mrs Clark and Percy is a painting by the British artist David Hockney. Painted between 1970 and 1971, it depicts the fashion designer Ossie Clark and the textile designer Celia Birtwell shortly after their wedding at which Hockney was Clark's best man. Hockney and Clark had been friends since the early 1960s. One of their cats sits on Ossie's knee (the cat in the painting was not in fact Percy — this was the name of one of their other cats — but Hockney thought Percy made a better title than Blanche, the cat he painted). The work is in acrylic on canvas, and measures 2170 x 3084mm in its frame. The painting featured in the final 10 of the Greatest Painting in Britain Vote in 2005, the only work by a living artist to do so. The painting is in the collection of the Tate Gallery.. 
Untitled. Author Name: Narendra Kalyan Patel. . . Untitled is a public art work by sculptor Narendra Patel, located on the south side of Milwaukee, Wisconsin. A circular base of concrete and bricks supports a triangular steel abstract sculpture painted in the primary colors of yellow, red and blue. The center of the sculpture is cut through to create a circular form of negative space. The sculpture is sited directly in front of the rounded facade of the Sixth District Police Station.. Untitled is a public art work by sculptor Narendra Patel, located on the south side of Milwaukee, Wisconsin. A circular base of concrete and bricks supports a triangular steel abstract sculpture painted in the primary colors of yellow, red and blue. The center of the sculpture is cut through to create a circular form of negative space. The sculpture is sited directly in front of the rounded facade of the Sixth District Police Station.. 
Judith. Author Name: Giorgione. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Judith is a painting by the Italian painter Giorgione, executed around 1504. It is one of the few authentic works by Giorgione owned by the Russian Hermitage Museum. The painting, originally attributed to Raphael, came to the Hermitage in 1772 from Paris. Like many other paintings, it refers to the Judith and Holofernes motif.. Judith is a painting by the Italian painter Giorgione, executed around 1504. It is one of the few authentic works by Giorgione owned by the Russian Hermitage Museum. The painting, originally attributed to Raphael, came to the Hermitage in 1772 from Paris. Like many other paintings, it refers to the Judith and Holofernes motif.. 
El Jaleo. Author Name: John Singer Sargent. . . El Jaleo is a large painting by John Singer Sargent, depicting a Spanish Gypsy dancer performing to the accompaniment of musicians. Painted in 1882, it currently hangs in the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston.. El Jaleo is a large painting by John Singer Sargent, depicting a Spanish Gypsy dancer performing to the accompaniment of musicians. Painted in 1882, it currently hangs in the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston.. 
Forever Marilyn. Author Name: John Seward Johnson II. . . Forever Marilyn is a giant statue of Marilyn Monroe designed by Seward Johnson. The statue is a representation of one of the most famous images of Monroe, taken from the 1955 film The Seven Year Itch. Inaugurated in July 2011, the statue stood at Pioneer Court in Chicago, Illinois, before it was moved to Palm Springs, California in 2012. The statue was given a farewell sendoff during Palm Springs Village Fest on March 27, 2014, to be displayed at an exhibition honoring Seward in New Jersey.. Forever Marilyn is a giant statue of Marilyn Monroe designed by Seward Johnson. The statue is a representation of one of the most famous images of Monroe, taken from the 1955 film The Seven Year Itch. Inaugurated in July 2011, the statue stood at Pioneer Court in Chicago, Illinois, before it was moved to Palm Springs, California in 2012. The statue was given a farewell sendoff during Palm Springs Village Fest on March 27, 2014, to be displayed at an exhibition honoring Seward in New Jersey.. 
Diana and Actaeon. Author Name: Titian. . . Diana and Actaeon is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Titian, finished in 1556–1559, and is considered amongst Titian's greatest works. It portrays the moment in which the goddess Diana meets Actaeon. Diana is the woman on the right side of the painting. She is wearing a crown with a crescent moon on it and is being covered by the dark skinned woman who may be her servant or slave. In 2008–2009, the National Gallery, London and National Gallery of Scotland successfully campaigned to acquire the painting from the Bridgewater Collection for £50 million. As a result, Diana and Actaeon will remain on display in the UK, and will alternate between the two galleries on five-year terms.. Diana and Actaeon is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Titian, finished in 1556–1559, and is considered amongst Titian's greatest works. It portrays the moment in which the goddess Diana meets Actaeon. Diana is the woman on the right side of the painting. She is wearing a crown with a crescent moon on it and is being covered by the dark skinned woman who may be her servant or slave. In 2008–2009, the National Gallery, London and National Gallery of Scotland successfully campaigned to acquire the painting from the Bridgewater Collection for £50 million. As a result, Diana and Actaeon will remain on display in the UK, and will alternate between the two galleries on five-year terms.. 
Ad Astra. Author Name: Richard Lippold. . . Ad Astra is a public artwork by American artist Richard Lippold. The abstract sculpture is located outside on the Jefferson Drive entrance of and in the collection of the National Air and Space Museum. The sculpture's title is Latin, meaning "to the stars.". Ad Astra is a public artwork by American artist Richard Lippold. The abstract sculpture is located outside on the Jefferson Drive entrance of and in the collection of the National Air and Space Museum. The sculpture's title is Latin, meaning "to the stars.". 
Big Twist. Author Name: Hunt, Bryan. . . Big Twist is an outdoor 1978 bronze sculpture by American artist Bryan Hunt, installed at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston's Lillie and Hugh Roy Cullen Sculpture Garden, in the U.S. state of Texas.. Big Twist is an outdoor 1978 bronze sculpture by American artist Bryan Hunt, installed at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston's Lillie and Hugh Roy Cullen Sculpture Garden, in the U.S. state of Texas.. 
Dorothy. Author Name: William Merritt Chase. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Dorothy is an oil painting by American artist William Merritt Chase. Created in 1902, it is currently part of the permanent collection in the Indianapolis Museum of Art.. Dorothy is an oil painting by American artist William Merritt Chase. Created in 1902, it is currently part of the permanent collection in the Indianapolis Museum of Art.. 
Two Lines Oblique Down, Variation III. Author Name: George Rickey. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Kinetic_art. . Two Lines Oblique Down, Variation III is a kinetic artwork by American artist George Rickey and located at the Indianapolis Museum of Art, near downtown Indianapolis, Indiana. The sculpture was made in 1970, and it is constructed from stainless steel.. Two Lines Oblique Down, Variation III is a kinetic artwork by American artist George Rickey and located at the Indianapolis Museum of Art, near downtown Indianapolis, Indiana. The sculpture was made in 1970, and it is constructed from stainless steel.. 
Large Interior Form. Author Name: Henry Moore. . Author Movement: Bronze Sculpture, Modernism. . Large Interior Form, 1953-54 is a sculpture by Henry Moore.. Large Interior Form, 1953-54 is a sculpture by Henry Moore.. 
Girl with Ball. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Girl with Ball is a 1961 painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It is an oil on canvas Pop art work that is now in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art, after being owned for several decades by Philip Johnson. It is one of Lichtenstein's earliest Pop art works and is known for its source, which is a newspaper ad that ran for several decades and which was among Lichtenstein's earliest works sourced from pop culture.. Girl with Ball is a 1961 painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It is an oil on canvas Pop art work that is now in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art, after being owned for several decades by Philip Johnson. It is one of Lichtenstein's earliest Pop art works and is known for its source, which is a newspaper ad that ran for several decades and which was among Lichtenstein's earliest works sourced from pop culture. Girl with Ball was exhibited at Lichtenstein's first solo exhibition and was displayed in Newsweek's review of the show. This work significantly alters the original source and is considered exemplary of Lichtenstein's works that exaggerate the mechanically produced appearance although the result of his painterly work. It is an enduring depiction of the contemporary beauty figure.. 
Isolated Mass/Circumflex. Author Name: Michael Heizer. . . Isolated Mass/Circumflex (Number 2), stylized as Isolated Mass/Circumflex (#2), an outdoor 1968–1978 sculpture by Michael Heizer, installed outside the Menil Collection in Houston, Texas, United States. The work is one of several by Heizer in the Menil Collection.. Isolated Mass/Circumflex (Number 2), stylized as Isolated Mass/Circumflex (#2), an outdoor 1968–1978 sculpture by Michael Heizer, installed outside the Menil Collection in Houston, Texas, United States. The work is one of several by Heizer in the Menil Collection.. 
Consulting the Oracle. Author Name: John William Waterhouse. . . Consulting the Oracle is a painting by John William Waterhouse. Waterhouse painted it in 1884; according to Anthony Hobson, "The Illustrated London News described it as one of the principal works of the year". Hobson describes the work as having a "keyhole composition" because a partial ring of women focus upon a single other (the priestess).. Consulting the Oracle is a painting by John William Waterhouse. Waterhouse painted it in 1884; according to Anthony Hobson, "The Illustrated London News described it as one of the principal works of the year". Hobson describes the work as having a "keyhole composition" because a partial ring of women focus upon a single other (the priestess). Hobson goes on to say that the painting helps "to establish Waterhouse as a classical painter" because of his use of "classical, geometrical structures...the vertical, the horizontal and the circle". When he adds the diagonal, as "in the inclined figure of the priestess" and the out-of-place rug, it is a deliberately added tension.. 
City of Workers. Author Name: Baluschek, Hans. . . City of Workers (German: Arbeiterstadt), also translated as Working-Class City, is an oil painting on canvas completed by the Berlin Secessionist painter Hans Baluschek in 1920. The 48.44 × 36.25 in (123 × 92.1 cm) work is held at the Milwaukee Art Museum.. City of Workers (German: Arbeiterstadt), also translated as Working-Class City, is an oil painting on canvas completed by the Berlin Secessionist painter Hans Baluschek in 1920. The 48.44 × 36.25 in (123 × 92.1 cm) work is held at the Milwaukee Art Museum.. 
The Car. Author Name: John Brack. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Antipodeans. . The Car is a 1955 painting by Australian artist John Brack. The painting depicts a family in a car on a drive in a rural area. The painting shows the father looking at the road ahead while the mother and children look towards the viewer. While the whole car cannot be seen, the car itself is identifiable as a Triumph Mayflower.The work was painted around the same time as two of Brack's best-known paintings, Collins Street., 5 pm (1955) and The Bar (1954).Brack described how he came to paint the work:. The Car is a 1955 painting by Australian artist John Brack. The painting depicts a family in a car on a drive in a rural area. The painting shows the father looking at the road ahead while the mother and children look towards the viewer. While the whole car cannot be seen, the car itself is identifiable as a Triumph Mayflower. The work was painted around the same time as two of Brack's best-known paintings, Collins Street., 5 pm (1955) and The Bar (1954). Brack described how he came to paint the work: Kirsty Grant, Senior Curator of Australian Art at the National Gallery of Victoria claims that The Car is one of Brack's more popular works stating "I think it transports people who lived through that time, whether they are adults or children, back to that era ...The Car is familiar. It is about people and the way we behave and our foibles." The painting is part of the National Gallery of Victoria's Australian art collection. The painting was part of the Australia exhibition at the Royal Academy in 2013.. 
Artwall. Author Name: Dreiseitl, Herbert. . . Artwall, also known as Art Wall, is an outdoor 2005 sculpture by German architect and artist Herbert Dreiseitl, located at Tanner Springs Park in the Pearl District of Portland, Oregon.. Artwall, also known as Art Wall, is an outdoor 2005 sculpture by German architect and artist Herbert Dreiseitl, located at Tanner Springs Park in the Pearl District of Portland, Oregon.. 
The Green Line. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . The Green Stripe (La Raie Verte), also known as Portrait of Madame Matisse. The Green Line, is a portrait by Henri Matisse of his wife, Amélie Noellie Matisse-Parayre. He painted it in 1905, just prior to such works being derisively labeled as the creations of Les Fauves (the wild beasts), along with similar works of André Derain and Maurice de Vlaminck.The painting hangs in Statens Museum for Kunst in Copenhagen, Denmark.. The Green Stripe (La Raie Verte), also known as Portrait of Madame Matisse. The Green Line, is a portrait by Henri Matisse of his wife, Amélie Noellie Matisse-Parayre. He painted it in 1905, just prior to such works being derisively labeled as the creations of Les Fauves (the wild beasts), along with similar works of André Derain and Maurice de Vlaminck. The painting hangs in Statens Museum for Kunst in Copenhagen, Denmark.. 
Sun God. Author Name: Niki de Saint Phalle. . . Sun God is a statue by French sculptor Niki de Saint Phalle located on the campus of the University of California, San Diego. The statue is a 14-foot multicolored bird-like creature, perched atop a 15-foot-tall horseshoe-shaped rock pedestal.. Sun God is a statue by French sculptor Niki de Saint Phalle located on the campus of the University of California, San Diego. The statue is a 14-foot multicolored bird-like creature, perched atop a 15-foot-tall horseshoe-shaped rock pedestal. Erected in February 1983 as a part of the Stuart Collection of public art projects, the fiberglass Sun God has become a unique feature on the UCSD campus. It is located on a grassy area between the Faculty Club and Mandeville Auditorium, on the eastern periphery of the John Muir College campus. Since the 1980s the UCSD Associated Students organization has sponsored an annual event, the Sun God Festival, with the statue as its official mascot. Over the years numerous visual-arts students have accessorized the statue with items such as sunglasses, a cap and gown, an ID card, a large, water-spraying phallus, and even a nest with eggs painted in the statue's trademark bright colors.. 
Bust of Giovanni Battista Santoni. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Bust of Giovanni Battisti Santoni is a sculptural portrait by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Believed to be one of the artist's earliest works, the bust forms part of a tomb for Santoni, who was majordomo to Pope Sixtus V from 1590 to 1592. The work was executed sometime between 1613 and 1616, although some have dated the work as early as 1609 (when Bernini was ten years old), including Filippo Baldinucci. The work remains in its original setting in the church of Santa Prassede in Rome.. The Bust of Giovanni Battisti Santoni is a sculptural portrait by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Believed to be one of the artist's earliest works, the bust forms part of a tomb for Santoni, who was majordomo to Pope Sixtus V from 1590 to 1592. The work was executed sometime between 1613 and 1616, although some have dated the work as early as 1609 (when Bernini was ten years old), including Filippo Baldinucci. The work remains in its original setting in the church of Santa Prassede in Rome.. 
Golconde. Author Name: René Magritte. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Surrealism. . Golconda (French: Golconde) is an oil painting on canvas by Belgian surrealist René Magritte, painted in 1953. It is usually housed at the Menil Collection in Houston, Texas.The piece depicts a scene of "raining men", nearly identical to each other dressed in dark overcoats and bowler hats, who seem to be either falling down like rain drops, floating up like helium balloons, or just stationed in mid air as no movement or motion is implied. The backdrop features red-roofed buildings and a mostly blue partly cloudy sky, lending credence to the theory that the men are not raining. The men are equally spaced in a lattice, facing the viewpoint and receding back in rhombic grid layers.. Golconda (French: Golconde) is an oil painting on canvas by Belgian surrealist René Magritte, painted in 1953. It is usually housed at the Menil Collection in Houston, Texas. The piece depicts a scene of "raining men", nearly identical to each other dressed in dark overcoats and bowler hats, who seem to be either falling down like rain drops, floating up like helium balloons, or just stationed in mid air as no movement or motion is implied. The backdrop features red-roofed buildings and a mostly blue partly cloudy sky, lending credence to the theory that the men are not raining. The men are equally spaced in a lattice, facing the viewpoint and receding back in rhombic grid layers. Magritte lived in a similar suburban environment, and dressed in a similar fashion. The bowler hat was a common feature of much of his work, and appears in paintings such as The Son of Man. Charly Herscovici, who was bequeathed copyright on the artist's works, commented on Golconda: One interpretation is that Magritte is demonstrating the line between individuality and group association, and how it is blurred. All of these men are dressed the same, have the same bodily features and are all floating/falling. This leaves us to look at the men as a group. Whereas if we look at each person, we can predict that they may be completely different from another figure. As was often the case with Magritte's works, the title Golconda was found by his poet friend Louis Scutenaire. Golkonda is a ruined city in the state of Telangana, India, near Hyderabad, which from the mid-14th century until the end of the 17th was the capital of two successive kingdoms; the fame it acquired through being the center of the region's legendary diamond industry was such that its name remains, according to the Oxford English Dictionary, "a synonym for 'mine of wealth'." Magritte included a likeness of Scutenaire in the painting – his face is used for the large man by the chimney of the house on the right of the picture.. 
Bucky O'Neill Monument. Author Name: Solon Borglum. . . The Bucky O'Neill Monument, also known as the Rough Rider Monument, is an equestrian sculpture of Buckey O'Neill by Solon Borglum. It is located at Courthouse Plaza, Prescott, Arizona. It was dedicated on July 3, 1907 and was rededicated on June 6, 1982, and again on July 3, 1998.The inscription reads:. The Bucky O'Neill Monument, also known as the Rough Rider Monument, is an equestrian sculpture of Buckey O'Neill by Solon Borglum. It is located at Courthouse Plaza, Prescott, Arizona. It was dedicated on July 3, 1907 and was rededicated on June 6, 1982, and again on July 3, 1998. The inscription reads:. 
The Burghers of Calais. Author Name: Auguste Rodin. . . Les Bourgeois de Calais is one of the most famous sculptures by Auguste Rodin, completed in 1889. It serves as a monument to an occurrence in 1347 during the Hundred Years' War, when Calais, an important French port on the English Channel, was under siege by the English for over a year. Calais commissioned Rodin to create the sculpture in 1884.. Les Bourgeois de Calais is one of the most famous sculptures by Auguste Rodin, completed in 1889. It serves as a monument to an occurrence in 1347 during the Hundred Years' War, when Calais, an important French port on the English Channel, was under siege by the English for over a year. Calais commissioned Rodin to create the sculpture in 1884.. 
Young Woman with Unicorn. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Portrait of Young Woman with Unicorn is a painting, oil on canvas applied to wood, by Raphael, c. 1506. It is in the Galleria Borghese in Rome.The portrait appears to have been influenced by the Mona Lisa, painted by Leonardo between 1503 and 1506. The work was of uncertain attribution until recent times. In the 1760 inventory of the Gallery, the subject of the painting was identified as Saint Catherine of Alexandria and attributed to Perugino. A restoration of the painting in 1934–36 confirmed art historian Roberto Longhi's hypothesis that the work was by Raphael, and the removal of heavy repainting revealed the unicorn, traditionally a symbol of purity in medieval romance, in place of a Saint Catherine wheel. Later restoration work on the painting in 1959 revealed the image of a dog, eve. Portrait of Young Woman with Unicorn is a painting, oil on canvas applied to wood, by Raphael, c. 1506. It is in the Galleria Borghese in Rome. The portrait appears to have been influenced by the Mona Lisa, painted by Leonardo between 1503 and 1506. The work was of uncertain attribution until recent times. In the 1760 inventory of the Gallery, the subject of the painting was identified as Saint Catherine of Alexandria and attributed to Perugino. A restoration of the painting in 1934–36 confirmed art historian Roberto Longhi's hypothesis that the work was by Raphael, and the removal of heavy repainting revealed the unicorn, traditionally a symbol of purity in medieval romance, in place of a Saint Catherine wheel. Later restoration work on the painting in 1959 revealed the image of a dog, even earlier than the unicorn, also a symbol of chastity and conjugal fidelity. The young woman in the painting was a bride and this painting was a wedding gift to the engaged couple from Raphael.. 
Monument to Nikolai Gogol. Author Name: Tomsky, Nikolai. . . The year 1952 was marked by many events that left an imprint on the history of Soviet and Russian Fine Arts.. The year 1952 was marked by many events that left an imprint on the history of Soviet and Russian Fine Arts.. 
The Wounded Montenegrin. Author Name: Paja Jovanović. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Ranjeni Crnogorac (English: The Wounded Montenegrin) is a 1882 oil painting by the artist Paja Jovanović. It depicts a wounded youth surrounded by peasants in traditional clothing, likely during the Montenegrin–Ottoman War of 1876–78. The painting garnered praise from critics, and won the first-place prize at the Academy of Fine Arts' annual art exhibition in Vienna. Given its success, Jovanović was granted an Austro-Hungarian government scholarship and entered into a contract with the French Gallery in London to produce a series of paintings on Balkan life. Art historians consider it one of Jovanović's best Orientalist works.. Ranjeni Crnogorac (English: The Wounded Montenegrin) is a 1882 oil painting by the artist Paja Jovanović. It depicts a wounded youth surrounded by peasants in traditional clothing, likely during the Montenegrin–Ottoman War of 1876–78. The painting garnered praise from critics, and won the first-place prize at the Academy of Fine Arts' annual art exhibition in Vienna. Given its success, Jovanović was granted an Austro-Hungarian government scholarship and entered into a contract with the French Gallery in London to produce a series of paintings on Balkan life. Art historians consider it one of Jovanović's best Orientalist works.. 
Apocalyptic Rider. Author Name: Kanso, Nabil. . . Apocalyptic Rider is a painting created by Nabil Kanso in 1980. It is oil on canvas measuring 7 X 9 feet (2 X 2.65 meters), and is part of a series depicting horsemen in compositions dealing with apocalyptic themes.. Apocalyptic Rider is a painting created by Nabil Kanso in 1980. It is oil on canvas measuring 7 X 9 feet (2 X 2.65 meters), and is part of a series depicting horsemen in compositions dealing with apocalyptic themes. The painting depicts a scene in which a horseman appears riding forward between two horizontally juxtaposed horses. The "Rider," symbolically representing horseman of the Apocalypse, is shown moving toward a figure falling near a mother holding a child. The composition of the picture is focused on the image formed by the rider and horses in the central plane. Its area, which occupies much of the pictorial space, appears to links the background and foreground, and to reinforce the tense atmosphere generated by the subject matter and the rendering of dense layers of paint applied with broad brushstrokes across the entire surface. The tone reflects a contrast of blue black against red. Some art critics interpreted the work as a metaphor for the wars in Central America and the Middle East. Others suggest that the compositional conception of the figures, colors, symbols and textures give a sense of imminent threat underlining the depicted theme.. 
Saint Praxedis. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . Saint Praxedis is an oil painting attributed to Johannes Vermeer. This attribution has often been questioned. However, in 2014 the auction house Christie's announced the results of new investigations which in their opinion demonstrate conclusively that it is a Vermeer. The painting is a copy of a work by Felice Ficherelli, and depicts the early Roman martyr, Saint Praxedis or Praxedes. It may be Vermeer's earliest surviving work, dating from 1655.. Saint Praxedis is an oil painting attributed to Johannes Vermeer. This attribution has often been questioned. However, in 2014 the auction house Christie's announced the results of new investigations which in their opinion demonstrate conclusively that it is a Vermeer. The painting is a copy of a work by Felice Ficherelli, and depicts the early Roman martyr, Saint Praxedis or Praxedes. It may be Vermeer's earliest surviving work, dating from 1655.. 
The Goldfinch. Author Name: Carel Fabritius. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Delft_School_(painting). . The Goldfinch (Dutch: Het puttertje) is a 1654 animal painting by Carel Fabritius of a chained goldfinch. It is an oil painting on panel of 33.5 by 22.8 cm (13.2 by 9.0 in). The work is in the collection of the Mauritshuis in The Hague, Netherlands.. The Goldfinch (Dutch: Het puttertje) is a 1654 animal painting by Carel Fabritius of a chained goldfinch. It is an oil painting on panel of 33.5 by 22.8 cm (13.2 by 9.0 in). The work is in the collection of the Mauritshuis in The Hague, Netherlands.. 
Big Painting No. 6. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Big Painting No. 6 (sometimes Big Painting or Big Painting VI) is a 1965 oil and Magna on canvas painting by Roy Lichtenstein. Measuring 235 cm × 330 cm (92.5 in × 129 in), it is part of the Brushstrokes series of artworks that includes several paintings and sculptures whose subject is the actions made with a house-painter's brush. It set a record auction price for a painting by a living American artist when it sold for $60,000 in 1970. The painting is in the Kunstsammlung Nordrhein-Westfalen collection.. Big Painting No. 6 (sometimes Big Painting or Big Painting VI) is a 1965 oil and Magna on canvas painting by Roy Lichtenstein. Measuring 235 cm × 330 cm (92.5 in × 129 in), it is part of the Brushstrokes series of artworks that includes several paintings and sculptures whose subject is the actions made with a house-painter's brush. It set a record auction price for a painting by a living American artist when it sold for $60,000 in 1970. The painting is in the Kunstsammlung Nordrhein-Westfalen collection. As with all of his Brushstrokes works, it is in part a satirical response to the gestural painting of Abstract Expressionism. Like most of Lichtenstein's Ben-Day dots works it is a depiction of mechanical reproduction via painterly technique. In this case, the satire comes from the depiction of the graphical depiction of the spontaneous painting motion in painstaking painterly detail.. 
Light Up. Author Name: Tony Smith. . . Light Up, often stylised as Light Up!, is a painted steel plate public art sculpture by American artist Tony Smith and dedicated on May 15, 1974. The sculpture is located in the University of Pittsburgh's Forbes Quadrangle between Posvar Hall, the Barco Law Building, and Hillman Library. Commissioned in 1971 by Westinghouse Electric Corporation, it was originally situated in Gateway Center in downtown Pittsburgh, but was donated to the University of Pittsburgh and relocated to its Oakland campus in 1988. The sculpture was temporarily recited to the Seagram Plaza in New York in 1998 for an exhibition of Smith's work at the Museum of Modern Art.. Light Up, often stylised as Light Up!, is a painted steel plate public art sculpture by American artist Tony Smith and dedicated on May 15, 1974. The sculpture is located in the University of Pittsburgh's Forbes Quadrangle between Posvar Hall, the Barco Law Building, and Hillman Library. Commissioned in 1971 by Westinghouse Electric Corporation, it was originally situated in Gateway Center in downtown Pittsburgh, but was donated to the University of Pittsburgh and relocated to its Oakland campus in 1988. The sculpture was temporarily recited to the Seagram Plaza in New York in 1998 for an exhibition of Smith's work at the Museum of Modern Art.. 
Femme au Chapeau. Author Name: Jean Metzinger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Femme au Chapeau or Woman with a Hat is an oil painting created circa 1906 by the French artist and theorist Jean Metzinger (1883–1956). The work is executed in a highly personal Divisionist style with a marked Proto-Cubist component during the height of Fauvism. Femme au Chapeau exhibits a presentiment of Metzinger's subsequent interest in the faceting of form associated with Cubism. The painting now forms part of the collection of the Korban Art Foundation.. Femme au Chapeau or Woman with a Hat is an oil painting created circa 1906 by the French artist and theorist Jean Metzinger (1883–1956). The work is executed in a highly personal Divisionist style with a marked Proto-Cubist component during the height of Fauvism. Femme au Chapeau exhibits a presentiment of Metzinger's subsequent interest in the faceting of form associated with Cubism. The painting now forms part of the collection of the Korban Art Foundation.. 
Pesaro Madonna. Author Name: Titian. . . The Pesaro Madonna (Italian: Pala Pesaro) (better known as the Madonna di Ca' Pesaro) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Titian, commissioned by Jacopo Pesaro, whose family acquired in 1518 the chapel in the Frari Basilica in Venice for which the work was painted, and where it remains today. Jacopo was Bishop of Paphos, in Cyprus, and had been named commander of the papal fleet by the Borgia pope, Alexander VI. This painting recalls one of Titian's earliest paintings Jacopo Pesaro being presented by Pope Alexander VI to Saint Peter, c. 1503-6. The Pesaro Madonna (Italian: Pala Pesaro) (better known as the Madonna di Ca' Pesaro) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Titian, commissioned by Jacopo Pesaro, whose family acquired in 1518 the chapel in the Frari Basilica in Venice for which the work was painted, and where it remains today. Jacopo was Bishop of Paphos, in Cyprus, and had been named commander of the papal fleet by the Borgia pope, Alexander VI. This painting recalls one of Titian's earliest paintings Jacopo Pesaro being presented by Pope Alexander VI to Saint Peter, c. 1503-6. 
Portrait of Doge Leonardo Loredan. Author Name: Giovanni Bellini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Portrait of Doge Leonardo Loredan is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini, dating from 1501. It is on display in the National Gallery in London. It portrays Leonardo Loredan, Doge of Venice from 1501 to 1521, in his ceremonial garments with the corno worn over a linen cap, and is signed  on a cartellino.. The Portrait of Doge Leonardo Loredan is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini, dating from 1501. It is on display in the National Gallery in London. It portrays Leonardo Loredan, Doge of Venice from 1501 to 1521, in his ceremonial garments with the corno worn over a linen cap, and is signed on a cartellino.. 
Niccolini-Cowper Madonna. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Niccolini-Cowper Madonna, also known as the Large Cowper Madonna, is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael, depicting Mary and Child, against a blue sky.. The Niccolini-Cowper Madonna, also known as the Large Cowper Madonna, is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael, depicting Mary and Child, against a blue sky.. 
The Madonna and Child with the Infant Saint John the Baptist. Author Name: Leonardo da Vinci. . . Virgin and Child with Infant St. John the Baptist is, from the technological and stylistic point of view, undoubtedly the work by Leonardo da Vinci and his workshop.There is certain evidence proving that the work on this painting was implemented in several stages. At the first stage, the underdrawing was done and figures painted; at the second stage the landscape (or at least its major part) and the background were painted around the figures. The third stage involved possible changes to the representation of Infant St. John, the Lamb, and John's attributes, and in-painting the floral ornament to the figure of St. John and on the relatively small area to the left from the Child Jesus.. Virgin and Child with Infant St. John the Baptist is, from the technological and stylistic point of view, undoubtedly the work by Leonardo da Vinci and his workshop. There is certain evidence proving that the work on this painting was implemented in several stages. At the first stage, the underdrawing was done and figures painted; at the second stage the landscape (or at least its major part) and the background were painted around the figures. The third stage involved possible changes to the representation of Infant St. John, the Lamb, and John's attributes, and in-painting the floral ornament to the figure of St. John and on the relatively small area to the left from the Child Jesus. Among the known existing paintings on the same subject, the present painting seems to be most close to the works of Leonardo himself, which may be because here Leonardo did the underdrawing and painted at least the figures, and one of the artists of his circle completed the work. The assumption that this is an unfinished work by Leonardo seems probable, due to the absence of the known existing original or at least full-scale cartoon while numerous copies dating from the late 15th and early 16th centuries are present. Indeed, it is hard to imagine that the composition has been developed and made into a painting by some other artist on the basis of known to us and mentioned above very small and schematic drawings by Leonardo, and that later this painting would be repeatedly copied by the artists of Leonardo's circle. The version of the unfinished painting by Leonardo is particularly viable in view of the master’s well-known habit of either leaving his works set aside for many years or completely unfinished. The hypothesis claiming that the version from the Ashmolean Museum is the unfinished painting by Leonardo was expressed by T. Borenius back in 1930, and since then has not been disputed by anyone (although in the Ashmolean the painting is labeled as Leonardo's workshop). While accepting Borenius's version of the existing unfinished painting, it seems appropriate to make two clarifications:- first, the Ashmolean painting is not unfinished. Numerous losses of paint layer are due solely to its very poor condition;- secondly, T. Borenius did not know about the present painting reviewed in this report. Its level of performance is higher than that of the Ashmolean version, and moreover, it demonstrates more masterly underdrawing and clearly identified stages of creation.The beginning of works on this painting could be dated approximately between the late 1470s – middle/late 1480s. Its completion apparently coincides with the drawings of the Child with the Lamb (dates vary between 1500 and 1506) and the completion of the Virgin of the Rocks from the National Gallery (1506–1508). The similarity revealed by the X-rays in the manner of painting the figure of Infant St. John on the examined artwork and the earlier Madonna of the Carnation is an interesting point. The main composition of the examined work can be approximately dated by the time of Madonna of the Carnation's creation (late 1470s – early 1480s.) and corresponds with the date of Leonardo's main drawing. At the same time, Leonardo’s drawings of the Child with the Lamb are dated fifteen to twenty years later. The already-mentioned pentimenti of the face (and possibly figure) of Infant St. John as well as the turn of the Lamb's head, attesting to the later changes introduced to the original composition, may provide the possible key to explaining the significant time difference between the introduction of the painting's constituent elements. Rather poorly-done floral ornament, in-painted around the figures of John and Jesus, dates back to the same late time. As for St. John's staff-like cross and cartouche on the earth at the foreground (probably with the typical inscription Ecce Agnus Dei), those attributes have been closed. The artist considered them redundant in the presence of the Lamb. Given the evident portrait similarity between the Infants Jesus and John, some obvious semantic parallels with Leonardo's uncanonical concept of the existence of not one but two Messiahs come to mind, the idea that has probably driven the commissioner (Brotherhood of the Immaculate Conception) to reject in 1483 Leonardo’s Virgin of the Rocks (the Louvre). If we consider the analyzed painting to be the source for all other copies, we should believe that it must have remained for some time without any attributes of the Infants, followed by the period with all of St. John's attributes when the Pitti and Château de Flers copies were taken from it. As for the copy from the Ashmolean Museum, it could have been done after the staff-like cross and the cartouche disappeared from it.. 
Boy Leading a Horse. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Jeune garçon au cheval is an early painting by Pablo Picasso. An example of Picasso's Rose Period, painted in 1905-06 in Paris.The painting was first owned by Ambroise Vollard. It then passed through the hands of numerous people through the years:In Vladimir Nabokov's novel Pale Fire, Professor Kinbote says he placed in his lodging-house "the reproduction of a beloved early Picasso: earth boy leading raincloud horse".. Jeune garçon au cheval is an early painting by Pablo Picasso. An example of Picasso's Rose Period, painted in 1905-06 in Paris. The painting was first owned by Ambroise Vollard. It then passed through the hands of numerous people through the years: Julius Schoeps, director of the Moses Mendelssohn institute for European Jewish studies on the University of Potsdam near Berlin, as speaker of the Mendelssohn-Bartholdy heirs, sued the Museum in 2007 for the painting, and Jed S. Rakoff ruled that Mendelssohn-Bartholdy had been forced to sell the painting by the Nazi Party. The Museum of Modern Art and the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation then sued the heir, Julius Schoeps. The dispute, however, ended up being settled out of court in 2009, with the museum retaining the work. In Vladimir Nabokov's novel Pale Fire, Professor Kinbote says he placed in his lodging-house "the reproduction of a beloved early Picasso: earth boy leading raincloud horse".. 
Presentation at the Temple. Author Name: Ambrogio Lorenzetti. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Gothic_art. . The Presentation at the Temple is a painting by the Italian late medieval painter Ambrogio Lorenzetti, signed and dated 1342, now housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence, Italy. It is one of the largest works by the Italian medieval painter, as well as one of the five which he signed and dated.. The Presentation at the Temple is a painting by the Italian late medieval painter Ambrogio Lorenzetti, signed and dated 1342, now housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence, Italy. It is one of the largest works by the Italian medieval painter, as well as one of the five which he signed and dated.. 
The World's Largest Lobster. Author Name: Bronnum, Winston. . . The World's Largest Lobster (French: Le plus grand homard du monde) is a concrete and reinforced steel statue by Canadian artist Winston Bronnum. The statue is 11 metres long and 5 metres tall, weighing 90 tonnes. The sculpture was commissioned by the Shediac Rotary Club as a tribute to the town's lobster fishing industry The sculpture took three years to complete. at a cost of $170,000. It attracts 500,000 visitors per year.. The World's Largest Lobster (French: Le plus grand homard du monde) is a concrete and reinforced steel statue by Canadian artist Winston Bronnum. The statue is 11 metres long and 5 metres tall, weighing 90 tonnes. The sculpture was commissioned by the Shediac Rotary Club as a tribute to the town's lobster fishing industry The sculpture took three years to complete. at a cost of $170,000. It attracts 500,000 visitors per year.. 
Self-Portrait with a Friend. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Self-Portrait with a friend (also known as Double Portrait) is a painting by Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael. It dates to 1518-1520, and is in the Louvre Museum of Paris, France. Whether the figure on the left is actually a self-portrait by Raphael is uncertain, although it was already identified as such in a 16th-century print.[better source needed]. The Self-Portrait with a friend (also known as Double Portrait) is a painting by Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael. It dates to 1518-1520, and is in the Louvre Museum of Paris, France. Whether the figure on the left is actually a self-portrait by Raphael is uncertain, although it was already identified as such in a 16th-century print.[better source needed]. 
The Snail. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . The Snail (L'escargot) is a collage by Henri Matisse.The work was created from summer 1952 to early 1953. It is pigmented with gouache on paper, cut and pasted onto a base layer of white paper measuring 9'43⁄4" × 9' 5" (287 × 288 cm). The piece is in the Stedelijk museum collection in Amsterdam.. The Snail (L'escargot) is a collage by Henri Matisse. The work was created from summer 1952 to early 1953. It is pigmented with gouache on paper, cut and pasted onto a base layer of white paper measuring 9'43⁄4" × 9' 5" (287 × 288 cm). The piece is in the Stedelijk museum collection in Amsterdam. It consists of a number of colored shapes arranged in a spiral pattern, as suggested by the title. Matisse first drew the snail, then used the colored paper to interpret it. The composition pairs complementary colors: Matisse gave the work the alternative title La Composition Chromatique (chromatic composition). From the early-to-mid-1940s Matisse was in increasingly poor health, and was suffering from arthritis. Eventually by 1950 he stopped painting in favor of gouaches découpées, paper cutouts. The Snail is a major example of this final body of works.. 
Saint Paul. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Saint Paul is a painting by Spanish painter Diego Velázquez painted between 1618 and 1620, now in the National Art Museum of Catalonia.The painting is from the early stage of Velazquez's career, when he was deeply influenced by Caravaggio. The artist from Seville reveals his mastery of portraiture in the image of a man captured directly from nature and wrapped in a wide robe in which the folds are almost sculptural. The figure of the saint is sitting on a stone plinth that blends with the background area. Perhaps to hide his limitations, Velázquez has hidden the legs and most of the hands under its folds. The color brown is a common feature of these years, as well as the lighting, both inherited from Tenebrism.. Saint Paul is a painting by Spanish painter Diego Velázquez painted between 1618 and 1620, now in the National Art Museum of Catalonia. The painting is from the early stage of Velazquez's career, when he was deeply influenced by Caravaggio. The artist from Seville reveals his mastery of portraiture in the image of a man captured directly from nature and wrapped in a wide robe in which the folds are almost sculptural. The figure of the saint is sitting on a stone plinth that blends with the background area. Perhaps to hide his limitations, Velázquez has hidden the legs and most of the hands under its folds. The color brown is a common feature of these years, as well as the lighting, both inherited from Tenebrism. The fingers of the left hand timidly appear on the thick book that indicates his status as an apostle. Top, left, is the inscription S.PAVLVS, text that connects the person with the apostle, without showing the sword, his only known attribute. Moreover, although the aura of holiness is appropriate to the subject, the work also evokes the intellectual philosophers painted by José de Ribera.. 
The Son of Man. Author Name: René Magritte. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Surrealism. . The Son of Man (French: Le fils de l'homme) is a 1964 painting by the Belgian surrealist painter René Magritte.Magritte painted it as a self-portrait. The painting consists of a man in an overcoat and a bowler hat standing in front of a low wall, beyond which is the sea and a cloudy sky. The man's face is largely obscured by a hovering green apple. However, the man's eyes can be seen peeking over the edge of the apple. Another subtle feature is that the man's left arm appears to bend backwards at the elbow.About the painting, Magritte said:. The Son of Man (French: Le fils de l'homme) is a 1964 painting by the Belgian surrealist painter René Magritte. Magritte painted it as a self-portrait. The painting consists of a man in an overcoat and a bowler hat standing in front of a low wall, beyond which is the sea and a cloudy sky. The man's face is largely obscured by a hovering green apple. However, the man's eyes can be seen peeking over the edge of the apple. Another subtle feature is that the man's left arm appears to bend backwards at the elbow. About the painting, Magritte said:. 
Green Coca-Cola Bottles. Author Name: Andy Warhol. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Green Coca-Cola Bottles is a 1962 painting by Andy Warhol that depicts numerous Coca-Cola bottles.. Green Coca-Cola Bottles is a 1962 painting by Andy Warhol that depicts numerous Coca-Cola bottles.. 
The Astronomer. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . The Astronomer is a painting finished in about 1668 by the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer. It is oil on canvas, 51 cm x 45 cm (20 x 18 in), and is on display at the Louvre, Paris.Portrayals of scientists were a favourite topic in 17th century Dutch painting and Vermeer's oeuvre includes both this astronomer and the slightly later The Geographer. Both are believed to portray the same man, possibly Antonie van Leeuwenhoek.. The Astronomer is a painting finished in about 1668 by the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer. It is oil on canvas, 51 cm x 45 cm (20 x 18 in), and is on display at the Louvre, Paris. Portrayals of scientists were a favourite topic in 17th century Dutch painting and Vermeer's oeuvre includes both this astronomer and the slightly later The Geographer. Both are believed to portray the same man, possibly Antonie van Leeuwenhoek. The astronomer's profession is shown by the celestial globe (version by Jodocus Hondius) and the book on the table, Metius's Institutiones Astronomicae Geographicae). Symbolically, the volume is open to Book III, a section advising the astronomer to seek "inspiration from God" and the painting on the wall shows the finding of Moses—Moses may represent knowledge and science ("learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians").. 
The Tribuna of the Uffizi. Author Name: Johan Zoffany. . . The Tribuna of the Uffizi (1772–1778) by Johann Zoffany is a painting of the north-east section of the Tribuna room in the Uffizi in Florence, Italy. The painting is part of the United Kingdom's Royal Collection.. The Tribuna of the Uffizi (1772–1778) by Johann Zoffany is a painting of the north-east section of the Tribuna room in the Uffizi in Florence, Italy. The painting is part of the United Kingdom's Royal Collection.. 
The Spirit of Haida Gwaii, the Black Canoe. Author Name: Bill Reid. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Visual_arts_by_indigenous_peoples_of_the_Americas. . The Spirit of Haida Gwaii is a sculpture by British Columbia Haida artist Bill Reid (1920–1998). It features on Canadian $20 bills issued between 2004 and 2012.. The Spirit of Haida Gwaii is a sculpture by British Columbia Haida artist Bill Reid (1920–1998). It features on Canadian $20 bills issued between 2004 and 2012.. 
The Last Communion of St. Jerome. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Last Communion of St. Jerome is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli, finished around 1494-1495. It is housed in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, in New York City.The small picture is inspired to one of the three apocryphal letters of Eusebius, according to which, before dying, St. Jerome received the Last Communion by St. Eusebius[disambiguation needed] himself. The choice of this scene, far less frequent than the usual depiction of St. Jerome in his studio, has been connected to Savonarola's predication in Florence at the time the work was executed; the latter's commissioner, identified by some scholars as the rich merchant Francesco del Pugliese, would be in fact a followed of the Ferrarese preacher.. The Last Communion of St. Jerome is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli, finished around 1494-1495. It is housed in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, in New York City. The small picture is inspired to one of the three apocryphal letters of Eusebius, according to which, before dying, St. Jerome received the Last Communion by St. Eusebius[disambiguation needed] himself. The choice of this scene, far less frequent than the usual depiction of St. Jerome in his studio, has been connected to Savonarola's predication in Florence at the time the work was executed; the latter's commissioner, identified by some scholars as the rich merchant Francesco del Pugliese, would be in fact a followed of the Ferrarese preacher.. 
An Iron Forge. Author Name: Joseph Wright. . . The Blacksmith's Shop is a recurring theme of five paintings by Joseph Wright of Derby. The version in his home town was originally completed in 1771.. The Blacksmith's Shop is a recurring theme of five paintings by Joseph Wright of Derby. The version in his home town was originally completed in 1771.. 
The Burning Giraffe. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The Burning Giraffe (1937) is a painting by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dalí. Dalí painted Burning Giraffe before his exile in the United States which was from 1940 to 1948. Although Dalí declared himself apolitical— "I am Dalí, and only that"—this painting shows his personal struggle with the battle in his home country. Characteristic are the opened drawers in the blue female figure, which Dalí on a later date described as "Femme-coccyx" (tail bone woman). This phenomenon can be traced back to Sigmund Freud's psychoanalytical method, much admired by Dalí. He regarded him as an enormous step forward for civilization, as shown in the following quote. "The only difference between immortal Greece and our era is Sigmund Freud who discovered that the human body, which in Greek times was mer. The Burning Giraffe (1937) is a painting by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dalí. Dalí painted Burning Giraffe before his exile in the United States which was from 1940 to 1948. Although Dalí declared himself apolitical— "I am Dalí, and only that"—this painting shows his personal struggle with the battle in his home country. Characteristic are the opened drawers in the blue female figure, which Dalí on a later date described as "Femme-coccyx" (tail bone woman). This phenomenon can be traced back to Sigmund Freud's psychoanalytical method, much admired by Dalí. He regarded him as an enormous step forward for civilization, as shown in the following quote. "The only difference between immortal Greece and our era is Sigmund Freud who discovered that the human body, which in Greek times was merely neoplatonical, is now filled with secret drawers only to be opened through psychoanalysis."[citation needed] The opened drawers in this expressive, propped up female figure thus refer to the inner, subconscious within man. In Dalí's own words his paintings form "a kind of allegory which serves to illustrate a certain insight, to follow the numerous narcissistic smells which ascend from each of our drawers."[citation needed] The image is set in a twilight atmosphere with deep blue sky. There are two female figures in the foreground, one with drawers opening from her side like a chest. They both have undefined phallic shapes (perhaps melted clocks, as a recurring image from Dalí's previous works) protruding from their backs which are supported by crutch-like objects. The hands, forearms and face of the nearest figure are stripped down to the muscular tissue beneath the skin. One figure is holding a strip of meat. Both humanures that double as a chest of drawers as well as the crutch like shapes are common archetypes in Dalí’s work. In the distance is a giraffe with its back on fire. Dalí first used the burning giraffe image in his 1930 film L'Âge d'Or (The Golden Age)[citation needed]. It appears again in 1937 in the painting The Invention of Monsters. Dalí described this image as “the masculine cosmic apocalyptic monster.” He believed it to be a premonition of war.. 
Portrait of Emilia Pia da Montefeltro. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Emilia Pia da Montefeltro is a picture from around 1504-1505, attributed to the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael and housed by the Baltimore Museum of Art, United States. The Portrait of Emilia Pia da Montefeltro is a picture from around 1504-1505, attributed to the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael and housed by the Baltimore Museum of Art, United States. 
Ventana al Pacifico. Author Name: Manuel Neri. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Bay_Area_Figurative_Movement. . Ventana al Pacifico ("Window on the Pacific" in English) is an outdoor 1989 marble sculpture by Manuel Neri, located outside of the Gus J. Solomon United States Courthouse in downtown Portland, Oregon.. Ventana al Pacifico ("Window on the Pacific" in English) is an outdoor 1989 marble sculpture by Manuel Neri, located outside of the Gus J. Solomon United States Courthouse in downtown Portland, Oregon.. 
Miravan. Author Name: Joseph Wright. . . Miravan Breaking Open the Tomb of his Ancestors is a painting by Joseph Wright of Derby originally completed in 1772 .. Miravan Breaking Open the Tomb of his Ancestors is a painting by Joseph Wright of Derby originally completed in 1772 .. 
Man Enters the Cosmos. Author Name: Henry Moore. . Author Movement: Bronze Sculpture, Modernism. . Man Enters the Cosmos is a cast bronze sculpture by Henry Moore located on the Lake Michigan lakefront outside the Adler Planetarium in the Museum Campus area of downtown Chicago in Cook County, Illinois, United States. The planetarium, which is both a National Historic Landmark and listed on the National Register of Historic Places, is located in the Near South Side community area of Chicago. Moore's sculpture is a functional bowstring equatorial sundial created in 1980 measuring approximately 13 feet (4.0 m). The sundial was formerly located slightly further south at the steps of the main entry plaza to the Planetarium, but it now sits directly on the lakefront. The work is a later copy of a composition first created in the 1960s for the offices of The Times newspaper at Printing House S. Man Enters the Cosmos is a cast bronze sculpture by Henry Moore located on the Lake Michigan lakefront outside the Adler Planetarium in the Museum Campus area of downtown Chicago in Cook County, Illinois, United States. The planetarium, which is both a National Historic Landmark and listed on the National Register of Historic Places, is located in the Near South Side community area of Chicago. Moore's sculpture is a functional bowstring equatorial sundial created in 1980 measuring approximately 13 feet (4.0 m). The sundial was formerly located slightly further south at the steps of the main entry plaza to the Planetarium, but it now sits directly on the lakefront. The work is a later copy of a composition first created in the 1960s for the offices of The Times newspaper at Printing House Square in London, and according to the Henry Moore Foundation is titled Sundial 1965-66 .. 
Footballer. Author Name: Nolan, Sidney. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Angry_Penguins. . Footballer is a 1946 painting by Australian artist Sidney Nolan. It depicts an Australian rules footballer standing before a crowd of spectators at a football match. For many years the painting was thought to be a generic image of a footballer, however Nolan later revealed that the painting is based on Bill Mohr, a star player for the St Kilda Football Club during the 1930s.. Footballer is a 1946 painting by Australian artist Sidney Nolan. It depicts an Australian rules footballer standing before a crowd of spectators at a football match. For many years the painting was thought to be a generic image of a footballer, however Nolan later revealed that the painting is based on Bill Mohr, a star player for the St Kilda Football Club during the 1930s. In 2002, the painting was acquired by the National Gallery of Victoria, and has become one of the gallery's most popular works. According to journalist Geoff McClure, Footballer "has special significance because, together with Drysdale's The Cricketers, it represents virtually the entire sports-related work ever done by our masters.". 
The Rainbow. Author Name: George Inness. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Hudson_River_School. . The Rainbow is an 1878 oil painting by American artist George Inness, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It depicts a rainbow arcing across the sky after a storm.. The Rainbow is an 1878 oil painting by American artist George Inness, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It depicts a rainbow arcing across the sky after a storm.. 
Symphony in White, No. 1: The White Girl. Author Name: James Abbott McNeill Whistler. . Author Movement: Founder of Tonalism. . Symphony in White, No. 1, also known as The White Girl, is a painting by James Abbott McNeill Whistler. The work shows a woman in full figure standing on a white polar bear skin in front of a white curtain with a white lily in her hand. The colour scheme of the painting is almost entirely white. The model is Joanna Hiffernan, the artist's mistress. Though the painting was originally called The White Girl, Whistler later started calling it Symphony in White, No. 1. By referring to his work in such abstract terms, he intended to emphasise his "art for art's sake" philosophy.. Symphony in White, No. 1, also known as The White Girl, is a painting by James Abbott McNeill Whistler. The work shows a woman in full figure standing on a white polar bear skin in front of a white curtain with a white lily in her hand. The colour scheme of the painting is almost entirely white. The model is Joanna Hiffernan, the artist's mistress. Though the painting was originally called The White Girl, Whistler later started calling it Symphony in White, No. 1. By referring to his work in such abstract terms, he intended to emphasise his "art for art's sake" philosophy. Whistler created the painting in the winter of 1861–62, though he later returned to it and made alterations. It was rejected both at the Royal Academy and at the Salon in Paris, but eventually accepted at the Salon des Refusés in 1863. This exhibition also featured Édouard Manet's famous Déjeuner sur l'herbe, and together the two works gained a lot of attention. The White Girl shows clearly the influence of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, with whom Whistler had recently come in contact. The painting has been interpreted by later art critics both as an allegory of innocence and its loss, and as a religious allusion to the Virgin Mary.. 
Vesuvius from Posillipo by Moonlight. Author Name: Joseph Wright. . . Vesuvius from Posillipo by Moonlight was painted by Joseph Wright of Derby in 1774. It is an oil painting of Mount Vesuvius in the distance, from the coastal shores of Naples at night. Dark grey smoke spews from the glowing red crater of the volcano and fills up the top right of the canvas, in contrast to the pale glow of moonlight to the left. Known as a "Painter of Light," Wright liked to play with highlights and shadows in his works and was most well known for his "Candlelight Pictures," landscape or genre scenes depicting dramatic contrasts between light and dark. Through utilizing this technique, Joseph Wright exhibits the sublimity of nature in Vesuvius from Posillipo by Moonlight as well as his other paintings of Mt. Vesuvius.. Vesuvius from Posillipo by Moonlight was painted by Joseph Wright of Derby in 1774. It is an oil painting of Mount Vesuvius in the distance, from the coastal shores of Naples at night. Dark grey smoke spews from the glowing red crater of the volcano and fills up the top right of the canvas, in contrast to the pale glow of moonlight to the left. Known as a "Painter of Light," Wright liked to play with highlights and shadows in his works and was most well known for his "Candlelight Pictures," landscape or genre scenes depicting dramatic contrasts between light and dark. Through utilizing this technique, Joseph Wright exhibits the sublimity of nature in Vesuvius from Posillipo by Moonlight as well as his other paintings of Mt. Vesuvius. Wright made a trip to Italy in 1733, where he acquired a wealth of new sights and experiences which greatly influenced his art. He drew and wrote extensively about ancient Roman and Italian art and architecture, and Italian landscapes and coastal scenes, especially around Naples. His imagination was particularly captivated by the volcanic activities of Mount Vesuvius, from which he derived many sketches of its textures and painted over 30 versions of it upon his return to England. Wright described his impression of Vesuvius as, "the most wonderful sight in nature." Although he did not personally witness an eruption, Wright still observed the volcano in a restrained state of activity, as it fumed smoke and spilled lava—and later expanded on and pieced together what he saw in his future paintings of the volcano. Vesuvius from Posillipo by Moonlight was painted in Europe during the Neoclassical period. In response to the discovery of the ancient Roman cities, the king of Naples appeared to have encouraged the exploration of Mt. Vesuvius, Pompeii, Herculaneum, and the Bay of Naples. This likely lead numerous artists, such as Wright himself, to go to England and become inspired by the sublimity of Mt. Vesuvius. Occurring at the same time was the Enlightenment movement, towards which Wright contributed his more popular scientifically and industrially themed works, especially his two most famous pieces: A Philosopher Lecturing on the Orrery and An Experiment on a Bird in the Air Pump. These typically displayed scientific demonstrations in a dimly lit room, suggesting the idea that society should revolve around education. Even though Vesuvius from Posillipo by Moonlight is not of a directly historical or scientific theme, Wright may have painted Mt. Vesuvius because he felt that it was an important part of history to preserve and be aware of, in addition to his fascination by its nature. Today, is evident that the 79 A.D. eruption of Mt. Vesuvius was indeed a major catastrophic event, because two cities with great archaeological artifacts of ancient Rome lie beneath its volcanic ashes.. 
Every Beating Second. Author Name: Echelman, Janet. . . Every Beating Second is a sculpture designed by artist Janet Echelman. The sculpture is located in Terminal 2 of the San Francisco International Airport, which opened in April 2011.. Every Beating Second is a sculpture designed by artist Janet Echelman. The sculpture is located in Terminal 2 of the San Francisco International Airport, which opened in April 2011.. 
Paolo and Francesca da Rimini. Author Name: Dante Gabriel Rossetti. . . Paolo and Francesca da Rimini is a watercolour by English artist and poet Dante Gabriel Rossetti, painted in 1855 and currently housed at Tate Britain.. Paolo and Francesca da Rimini is a watercolour by English artist and poet Dante Gabriel Rossetti, painted in 1855 and currently housed at Tate Britain.. 
Cubist Bird. Author Name: Johnson, Sargent Claude. . . The Cubist Bird is a painting by Sargent Claude Johnson, which was painted in the year 1966. It is an enamel on steel. It represents cubism, which was a popular style in the early to mid 1900s. This painting is shown with a bird extending its neck in front of a sun-like object. It also consists of a series vibrant colors, and many different triangles, and crescents.. The Cubist Bird is a painting by Sargent Claude Johnson, which was painted in the year 1966. It is an enamel on steel. It represents cubism, which was a popular style in the early to mid 1900s. This painting is shown with a bird extending its neck in front of a sun-like object. It also consists of a series vibrant colors, and many different triangles, and crescents.. 
Portrait of Doña Isabel de Requesens y Enríquez de Cardona-Anglesola. Author Name: Giulio Romano. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Portrait of Doña Isabel de Requesens y Enríquez de Cardona-Anglesola is an oil painting dated circa 1518 that was formerly believed to depict Giovanna d'Aragona. It has been variously ascribed to Raphael, Giulio Romano, or the school of Raphael; it is now usually taken to have been executed by Giulio Romano based on a sketch by Raphael and then altered by Raphael. The painting is now in the Louvre Museum in Paris.. Portrait of Doña Isabel de Requesens y Enríquez de Cardona-Anglesola is an oil painting dated circa 1518 that was formerly believed to depict Giovanna d'Aragona. It has been variously ascribed to Raphael, Giulio Romano, or the school of Raphael; it is now usually taken to have been executed by Giulio Romano based on a sketch by Raphael and then altered by Raphael. The painting is now in the Louvre Museum in Paris.. 
Crucifixion With a Donor. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . Crucifixion With a Donor is a painting by Hieronymus Bosch believed to be painted between 1480 and 1485. The painting resides at Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium in Brussels.. Crucifixion With a Donor is a painting by Hieronymus Bosch believed to be painted between 1480 and 1485. The painting resides at Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium in Brussels.. 
Salem. Author Name: Sydney Curnow Vosper. . . Salem is a 1908 painting by the English painter Sydney Curnow Vosper, depicting a scene within Capel Salem, a Baptist Chapel in Pentre Gwynfryn, North Wales. It is noteworthy as a depiction of Welsh piety, the traditional Welsh national costume, and for a contentious belief that the devil is depicted within it. Mass reproductions throughout the early and mid 20th century ensured the image became famous throughout Britain.The painting has been described as an icon of Wales, much as The Hay Wain is iconic of England.. Salem is a 1908 painting by the English painter Sydney Curnow Vosper, depicting a scene within Capel Salem, a Baptist Chapel in Pentre Gwynfryn, North Wales. It is noteworthy as a depiction of Welsh piety, the traditional Welsh national costume, and for a contentious belief that the devil is depicted within it. Mass reproductions throughout the early and mid 20th century ensured the image became famous throughout Britain. The painting has been described as an icon of Wales, much as The Hay Wain is iconic of England.. 
Hope. Author Name: Sir Edward Burne-Jones, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Aestheticism. . Hope is a late oil painting by the Pre-Raphaelite artist Edward Burne-Jones. It was painted on commission for Mrs. George Marston Whitin of Whitinsville, Massachusetts in 1896.Mrs. Whitin originally requested a painting of a dancing figure, but Burne-Jones, devastated by the recent death of his long-time friend and partner William Morris, struggled with the work and wrote to ask if a painting of Hope would be an acceptable alternative. The result was an allegory in the Renaissance fashion, with the bound personification of Hope reaching skyward despite her bars.. Hope is a late oil painting by the Pre-Raphaelite artist Edward Burne-Jones. It was painted on commission for Mrs. George Marston Whitin of Whitinsville, Massachusetts in 1896. Mrs. Whitin originally requested a painting of a dancing figure, but Burne-Jones, devastated by the recent death of his long-time friend and partner William Morris, struggled with the work and wrote to ask if a painting of Hope would be an acceptable alternative. The result was an allegory in the Renaissance fashion, with the bound personification of Hope reaching skyward despite her bars. The painting is based on an 1871 watercolour by Burne-Jones. The watercolour is likely painted over the original cartoon for one of a set of stained glass designs of the Christian virtues Faith, Hope, and Charity created by Burne-Jones for Morris, Marshall, Faulknor and Company. A three-light window based on Burne-Jones's designs was commissioned for the nave of Christ Church Cathedral, Oxford. The stained glass designs were also used for a set of windows at St Margaret's Church, Hopton-on-Sea. The oil painting of Hope was donated to the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston by Mrs. Whitin's daughters in her memory.. 
San Martín y el mendigo. Author Name: El Greco. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . Saint Martin and the Beggar is a painting by Spanish mannerist painter El Greco, painted c. 1597-1599, that currently is in the collection of The National Gallery of Art, Washington, DC.  It depicts a legend in the life of Christian saint Martin of Tours: the saint cut off half his cloak and gave it to a beggar.El Greco made a smaller version of the painting that is in the collection of the Art Institute of Chicago.. Saint Martin and the Beggar is a painting by Spanish mannerist painter El Greco, painted c. 1597-1599, that currently is in the collection of The National Gallery of Art, Washington, DC. It depicts a legend in the life of Christian saint Martin of Tours: the saint cut off half his cloak and gave it to a beggar. El Greco made a smaller version of the painting that is in the collection of the Art Institute of Chicago.. 
Sherbrooke War Memorial. Author Name: George William Hill. . . The Sherbrooke War Memorial is a cenotaph erected in 1926, on King Street, in Sherbrooke, Quebec, to commemorate Sherbrooke residents who fought in World War I. This piece of cultural heritage has become emblematic of the city of Sherbrooke,[citation needed] which counts it among its ten main "points of interest". The monument was designed by George William Hill, one of the foremost Canadian sculptors of the first half of the 20th century.. The Sherbrooke War Memorial is a cenotaph erected in 1926, on King Street, in Sherbrooke, Quebec, to commemorate Sherbrooke residents who fought in World War I. This piece of cultural heritage has become emblematic of the city of Sherbrooke,[citation needed] which counts it among its ten main "points of interest". The monument was designed by George William Hill, one of the foremost Canadian sculptors of the first half of the 20th century.. 
Archangel Michael fights the devil and the Virgin of the Assumption of the Angels. Author Name: Dossi, Battista. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Archangel Michael fights the devil and the Virgin of the Assumption of the Angels is an oil painting on canvas (243x166 cm) of Dosso Dossi and Battista Dossi, dated to about 1533 to 1534 and preserved at the Galleria nazionale di Parma.see the italian article Vergine Assunta e san Michele Arcangelo. Archangel Michael fights the devil and the Virgin of the Assumption of the Angels is an oil painting on canvas (243x166 cm) of Dosso Dossi and Battista Dossi, dated to about 1533 to 1534 and preserved at the Galleria nazionale di Parma. see the italian article Vergine Assunta e san Michele Arcangelo. 
The Disintegration of the Persistence of Memory. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . La Desintegración de la Persistencia de la Memoria or The Disintegration of the Persistence of Memory (oil on canvas, 1954), is a painting by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dalí. It is an oil on canvas re-creation of the artist's famous 1931 work The Persistence of Memory, and measures a diminutive 25.4 × 33 cm. It was originally known as The Chromosome of a Highly-coloured Fish's Eye Starting the Harmonious Disintegration of the Persistence of Memory, and first exhibited at the Carstairs Gallery in New York in 1954.. La Desintegración de la Persistencia de la Memoria or The Disintegration of the Persistence of Memory (oil on canvas, 1954), is a painting by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dalí. It is an oil on canvas re-creation of the artist's famous 1931 work The Persistence of Memory, and measures a diminutive 25.4 × 33 cm. It was originally known as The Chromosome of a Highly-coloured Fish's Eye Starting the Harmonious Disintegration of the Persistence of Memory, and first exhibited at the Carstairs Gallery in New York in 1954.. 
Greetings from the Salton Sea. Author Name: Kim Stringfellow. . . Greetings from the Salton Sea is a project created by artist Kim Stringfellow. It features photography by Kim Stringfellow and documents the history of the Salton Sea, California's largest inland body of water. It consists of a book, exhibition, and website. The artist and the book were both featured on KPBS to commemorate the sea's centennial.. Greetings from the Salton Sea is a project created by artist Kim Stringfellow. It features photography by Kim Stringfellow and documents the history of the Salton Sea, California's largest inland body of water. It consists of a book, exhibition, and website. The artist and the book were both featured on KPBS to commemorate the sea's centennial.. 
Apollo in the Forge of Vulcan. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Apollo in the Forge of Vulcan (Spanish: Apolo en la Fragua de Vulcano) is an oil painting by Diego de Velázquez completed after his first visit to Italy in 1629. Critics agree that the work should be dated to 1630, the same year as his companion painting "Joseph's Tunic". It appears that neither of the two paintings were commissioned by the king, although both became part of the royal collections within a short time. The painting became part of the collection of the Museo del Prado, in Madrid, in 1819.. Apollo in the Forge of Vulcan (Spanish: Apolo en la Fragua de Vulcano) is an oil painting by Diego de Velázquez completed after his first visit to Italy in 1629. Critics agree that the work should be dated to 1630, the same year as his companion painting "Joseph's Tunic". It appears that neither of the two paintings were commissioned by the king, although both became part of the royal collections within a short time. The painting became part of the collection of the Museo del Prado, in Madrid, in 1819.. 
Vase with Oleanders. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Vase with Oleanders was made in 1888 by Vincent van Gogh. The work's location is unknown and it is possibly stolen or possibly destroyed.. Vase with Oleanders was made in 1888 by Vincent van Gogh. The work's location is unknown and it is possibly stolen or possibly destroyed.. 
La Paloma. Author Name: Nonell, Isidre. . . La Paloma is a 1904 painting by a Catalan painter Isidre Nonell, which is exhibited at the National Art Museum of Catalonia.. La Paloma is a 1904 painting by a Catalan painter Isidre Nonell, which is exhibited at the National Art Museum of Catalonia.. 
Pia de' Tolomei. Author Name: Dante Gabriel Rossetti. . . Pia de' Tolomei is an oil painting on canvas by English artist Dante Gabriel Rossetti, painted around 1868 and currently housed at the Spencer Museum of Art, on the campus of the University of Kansas in Lawrence, Kansas.. Pia de' Tolomei is an oil painting on canvas by English artist Dante Gabriel Rossetti, painted around 1868 and currently housed at the Spencer Museum of Art, on the campus of the University of Kansas in Lawrence, Kansas.. 
Fishing Scene. Author Name: Annibale Carracci. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Fishing (or Fishing Scene) is a painting by Italian artist Annibale Carracci, painted before 1595 and given to Louis XIV by Prince Camillo Pamphili in 1665. It is currently held and exhibited at the Louvre in Paris.. Fishing (or Fishing Scene) is a painting by Italian artist Annibale Carracci, painted before 1595 and given to Louis XIV by Prince Camillo Pamphili in 1665. It is currently held and exhibited at the Louvre in Paris.. 
Woman with a Mirror. Author Name: Titian. . . Woman with a Mirror (French: La Femme au miroir) is a painting by Titian, dated to c. 1515 and now in the Musée du Louvre.. Woman with a Mirror (French: La Femme au miroir) is a painting by Titian, dated to c. 1515 and now in the Musée du Louvre.. 
The Jurist. Author Name: Arcimboldo, Giuseppe. . . The Jurist (Italian: L'Avvocato), also known as The Lawyer, is an oil-on-canvas painting by Italian artist Giuseppe Arcimboldo, painted in 1566.It shows a member of the legal profession, whose facial features are depicted using meat and fish, and whose body is composed of legal documents. Two versions of the painting exist; the first, from 1566, is held by the National Museum of Fine Arts (Nationalmuseum) in Stockholm (acquired from a collection at Gripsholm Castle in 1866), and a later version is held by a private collector in Milan.. The Jurist (Italian: L'Avvocato), also known as The Lawyer, is an oil-on-canvas painting by Italian artist Giuseppe Arcimboldo, painted in 1566. It shows a member of the legal profession, whose facial features are depicted using meat and fish, and whose body is composed of legal documents. Two versions of the painting exist; the first, from 1566, is held by the National Museum of Fine Arts (Nationalmuseum) in Stockholm (acquired from a collection at Gripsholm Castle in 1866), and a later version is held by a private collector in Milan. Arcimboldo was employed as court painter to Maximilian II and was already well established as an artist by the time he created The Jurist. He was known for his innovative style, particularly for his portraits in which the subjects were composed of everyday objects. His fantastical and imaginative paintings somewhat foreshadowed the Surrealist movement of the 20th century, but were also appreciated as part of the Mannerist tradition of his own time. His series of paintings, The Four Seasons, which depicted the changing seasons as series of portraits composed of seasonal plants, were particularly popular, and he even created a portrait of Rudolf II (entitled Vertemnus) in the same style. The features of the face are represented by the plucked carcasses of poultry and the sneering mouth by fish. It is not known if the subject is a caricature of the legal profession in general or based on a real jurist of the time. The German jurist Ulrich Zasius is normally suggested as the subject; the Nationalmuseum lists the picture in its catalogue as The Lawyer (Ulrich Zasius), but Calvin has also been suggested. Arcimboldo's portrait of The Librarian (Il Bibliotecario), painted the same year, has a more noble aspect, although this portrait too has been interpreted as a parody of librarianship, book collectors, and intellectualism.. 
Landscape near Arles. Author Name: Paul Gauguin. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Landscape near Arles is an 1888 oil painting by French artist Paul Gauguin, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It depicts a rural scene in Provence.. Landscape near Arles is an 1888 oil painting by French artist Paul Gauguin, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It depicts a rural scene in Provence.. 
The Bohemian. Author Name: William-Adolphe Bouguereau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Bohemian is a painting by William-Adolphe Bouguereau completed in 1890. It depicts a barefooted young woman sitting on a concrete bench on the south bank of the Seine across from Notre Dame de Paris resting a violin in her lap. Her right arm is resting on her thigh while the palm of her left hand is pressed down on her left knee so that she does not lean on the violin. Her hands are clasped with the fingers pointing forward while her shoulders are wrapped in a shawl dyed maroon and light green, and she is wearing a gray dress that extends to her ankles. The bow of the violin has been stuck through diagonally under the fingerboard. To her right is a maple tree.. The Bohemian is a painting by William-Adolphe Bouguereau completed in 1890. It depicts a barefooted young woman sitting on a concrete bench on the south bank of the Seine across from Notre Dame de Paris resting a violin in her lap. Her right arm is resting on her thigh while the palm of her left hand is pressed down on her left knee so that she does not lean on the violin. Her hands are clasped with the fingers pointing forward while her shoulders are wrapped in a shawl dyed maroon and light green, and she is wearing a gray dress that extends to her ankles. The bow of the violin has been stuck through diagonally under the fingerboard. To her right is a maple tree. The subject is a model employed by Bouguereau for this and other paintings, including The Shepherdess. It was owned by the Minneapolis Institute of Art until 2004 when it was auctioned by Christie's to benefit the acquisition fund.. 
Man and Woman. Author Name: Fernand Léger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Man and Woman is an oil on canvas painting by French artist Fernand Léger from 1921, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, USA. It is a cubist portrait of a man and a woman locked in a passionate embrace at odds with their depersonalized, industrialized setting.. Man and Woman is an oil on canvas painting by French artist Fernand Léger from 1921, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, USA. It is a cubist portrait of a man and a woman locked in a passionate embrace at odds with their depersonalized, industrialized setting.. 
Chichester Canal. Author Name: J. M. W. Turner. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . Chichester Canal is a painting by the English Romantic landscape painter, watercolourist and printmaker J. M. W. Turner. It was painted in 1828 and was commissioned by George Wyndham, 3rd Earl of Egremont It is currently housed in the Tate Collection.The work depicts the Chichester Canal in Sussex, southern England. The ship is probably a collier brig, as this serene scene had commercial purpose. Its brilliant colours may have been influenced by atmospheric ash from the eruption of Mount Tambora in Indonesia (see also Year Without a Summer).. Chichester Canal is a painting by the English Romantic landscape painter, watercolourist and printmaker J. M. W. Turner. It was painted in 1828 and was commissioned by George Wyndham, 3rd Earl of Egremont It is currently housed in the Tate Collection. The work depicts the Chichester Canal in Sussex, southern England. The ship is probably a collier brig, as this serene scene had commercial purpose. Its brilliant colours may have been influenced by atmospheric ash from the eruption of Mount Tambora in Indonesia (see also Year Without a Summer).. 
Portrait of Sigismondo Pandolfo Malatesta. Author Name: Piero della Francesca. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Sigismondo Pandolfo Malatesta is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Piero della Francesca (c. 1451). It portrays the condottiero and lord of Rimini and Fano Sigismondo Pandolfo Malatesta, and is housed in the Musée du Louvre of Paris.Despite the choice of the profile representation, typical of the portraits of eminent figures of the type, Piero della Francesca showed his attention for naturalist details in the fine execution of the texture and the hair of the committent. This is a proof of his good knowledge of Flemish masters such as Rogier van der Weyden.. The Portrait of Sigismondo Pandolfo Malatesta is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Piero della Francesca (c. 1451). It portrays the condottiero and lord of Rimini and Fano Sigismondo Pandolfo Malatesta, and is housed in the Musée du Louvre of Paris. The portrait depicts the condottiero by profile and, according to some sources, was based on a medal executed in 1445 by Pisanello, or to one by Matteo de' Pasti from 1450. The picture itself was executed by Piero della Francesca during his sojourn in Rimini, during which he also painted the fresco with Sigismondo Pandolfo kneeling after St. Sigismund in the Tempio Malatestiano (Cathedral) of the city. Despite the choice of the profile representation, typical of the portraits of eminent figures of the type, Piero della Francesca showed his attention for naturalist details in the fine execution of the texture and the hair of the committent. This is a proof of his good knowledge of Flemish masters such as Rogier van der Weyden.. 
Vermonica. Author Name: Klein, Sheila. . . Vermonica is a public art installation initiated by artist Sheila Klein in 1993. The sculpture is named for the intersection of Santa Monica Boulevard and Vermont Avenue in East Hollywood. Some of the artwork's 25 lamp poles date to 1925, the year Los Angeles's Bureau of Street Lighting opened. Placed in front of a Rite-Aid, the lights glow to illuminate the mini-mall parking lot it is located in at specific times during the night. Sheila Klein cooperated with Los Angeles businesses, bureaus, departments and neighborhoods to erect what she describes as a "formal composition" and a "drive-in museum" of street lighting. Vermonica was envisioned initially as a temporary installation with borrowed poles from the nearby streetlight yard on Santa Monica Boulevard. The sculpture was so popular, h. Vermonica is a public art installation initiated by artist Sheila Klein in 1993. The sculpture is named for the intersection of Santa Monica Boulevard and Vermont Avenue in East Hollywood. Some of the artwork's 25 lamp poles date to 1925, the year Los Angeles's Bureau of Street Lighting opened. Placed in front of a Rite-Aid, the lights glow to illuminate the mini-mall parking lot it is located in at specific times during the night. Sheila Klein cooperated with Los Angeles businesses, bureaus, departments and neighborhoods to erect what she describes as a "formal composition" and a "drive-in museum" of street lighting. Vermonica was envisioned initially as a temporary installation with borrowed poles from the nearby streetlight yard on Santa Monica Boulevard. The sculpture was so popular, however, that it was kept installed. Vermonica precedes Chris Burden's Urban Light by 15 years.. 
L'Amour et Psyché, enfants. Author Name: William-Adolphe Bouguereau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . L'Amour et Psyché, enfants (translated: Cupid and Psyche as Children, 1890, Salon of 1890, No. 330) is one of William-Adolphe Bouguereau's most famous paintings. It is incorrectly known as Le Premier Baiser (The First Kiss, 1873).The painting is an oil on canvas, 60 x 71 cm (20 x 27 7/8 inches), and it is housed in a private collection. The subject of the painting stems from the story of Cupid and Psyche told by Apuleius in The Golden Ass (2nd century ).. L'Amour et Psyché, enfants (translated: Cupid and Psyche as Children, 1890, Salon of 1890, No. 330) is one of William-Adolphe Bouguereau's most famous paintings. It is incorrectly known as Le Premier Baiser (The First Kiss, 1873). The painting is an oil on canvas, 60 x 71 cm (20 x 27 7/8 inches), and it is housed in a private collection. The subject of the painting stems from the story of Cupid and Psyche told by Apuleius in The Golden Ass (2nd century ).. 
The Wine of Saint Martin's Day. Author Name: Pieter Bruegel the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_and_Flemish_Renaissance_painting. . The Wine of Saint Martin's Day is the largest painting by Pieter Bruegel the Elder. It is currently held in the Museo del Prado, Madrid, where it was identified as a Breugel original in 2010. Like much of Bruegel's work it depicts peasant life, in this case a festival known as St. Martin's Day, which involves drinking the first wine of the season.. The Wine of Saint Martin's Day is the largest painting by Pieter Bruegel the Elder. It is currently held in the Museo del Prado, Madrid, where it was identified as a Breugel original in 2010. Like much of Bruegel's work it depicts peasant life, in this case a festival known as St. Martin's Day, which involves drinking the first wine of the season.. 
The Adoration of the Magi. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Adoration of the Magi is a c.1617-18 painting by Peter Paul Rubens. It is now in the Musée des Beaux-Arts de LyonSince it is horizontal rather than vertical it was probably commissioned for a private collection rather than as an altarpiece. Peter C. Sutton suggested that, as Rubens' treatments of this subject in vertical formats were for known ecclesiastical commissions as altarpieces, the horizontal format, which is shared with Rubens' Adoration painted for the Statenkamer of Antwerp's town hall, c. 1608-09, might suggest that the Lyon painting was also a secular commission. Rubens made a considerable fortune via the painting's reproduction in engravings and tapestries.. The Adoration of the Magi is a c.1617-18 painting by Peter Paul Rubens. It is now in the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Lyon Since it is horizontal rather than vertical it was probably commissioned for a private collection rather than as an altarpiece. Peter C. Sutton suggested that, as Rubens' treatments of this subject in vertical formats were for known ecclesiastical commissions as altarpieces, the horizontal format, which is shared with Rubens' Adoration painted for the Statenkamer of Antwerp's town hall, c. 1608-09, might suggest that the Lyon painting was also a secular commission. Rubens made a considerable fortune via the painting's reproduction in engravings and tapestries. The painting arranges full-length figures across the canvas, backed by a frieze-like crowd showing a variety of mature male types, twelve in all. The oldest magus kneels and kisses the foot of the Christ Child with a tender gesture, as the Child, standing on a straw-strewn table, where he is presented by the Virgin Mary, touches the magus' bald head in a gesture of benediction. The dim stable is lit by shafts of light.. 
Looking Down Yosemite Valley, California. Author Name: Albert Bierstadt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Hudson_River_School. . Looking Down the Yosemite Valley, California is an 1865 painting by the German-American painter Albert Bierstadt (1830-1902).It was Bierstadt’s first large-scale Yosemite picture, a subject for which he would become well known. It presents a view of one of America’s most scenic spots. Based on sketches made during a visit in 1863, Bierstadt paints the valley from a vantage point just above the Merced River, looking due west with the prospect framed by El Capitan on the right, and Sentinel Rock on the left; the spire of Middle Cathedral Rock is visible in the distance.. Looking Down the Yosemite Valley, California is an 1865 painting by the German-American painter Albert Bierstadt (1830-1902). It was Bierstadt’s first large-scale Yosemite picture, a subject for which he would become well known. It presents a view of one of America’s most scenic spots. Based on sketches made during a visit in 1863, Bierstadt paints the valley from a vantage point just above the Merced River, looking due west with the prospect framed by El Capitan on the right, and Sentinel Rock on the left; the spire of Middle Cathedral Rock is visible in the distance.. 
Blind Man's Bluff. Author Name: Jean-Honoré Fragonard. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Rococo. . Blind Man's Bluff (French: Le collin maillard) is a painting by the French Rococo painter Jean-Honoré Fragonard, produced around 1769 in oil on canvas. It is full of deceptions – the girl is looking out from under her blindfold and the game seems to be a pretext leading to seduction; the two figures are in pastoral costume, but may be noble or bourgeois figures playing at being pastoral figures; the background seems to be a wood but could be a stage set. In short, it seems to abolish the boundary between truth and lies, reality and fiction.. Blind Man's Bluff (French: Le collin maillard) is a painting by the French Rococo painter Jean-Honoré Fragonard, produced around 1769 in oil on canvas. It is full of deceptions – the girl is looking out from under her blindfold and the game seems to be a pretext leading to seduction; the two figures are in pastoral costume, but may be noble or bourgeois figures playing at being pastoral figures; the background seems to be a wood but could be a stage set. In short, it seems to abolish the boundary between truth and lies, reality and fiction. The Toledo Museum of Art describes the work "Playfully erotic and sensuously painted, Jean-Honoré Fragonard's scene of youthful flirtation fulfils the eighteenth-century aristocratic French taste for romantic pastoral themes. The figures are beautifully dressed in rustic but improbably clean and fashionable clothes; the woman's shoes even have elegant bows on them." The painting was intended to accompany The See-Saw (1750) , currently, held by the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum, in Madrid. Both are painted in the style and spirit of Fragonard's master François Boucher. Boucher's training can be seen in the ornamental flourishes of flowers and trees. But Fragonard's own skill may be seen in the brilliant composition. Blindman's bluff can be seen as a metaphor for courtship, while the rocking of the see-saw would clearly be a metaphor for the act of lovemaking itself. Another painting of the same name was completed by Fragonard, after the artist’s second journey to Italy in 1773–74, between about 1775 and 1780. In this more expansive version well-dressed men, women and children play the familiar game in a picturesque overgrown garden. Fragonard’s favorite subject, he may have viewed the games as symbolizing the game of courtship. The painting is held by the Timken Museum of Art, in San Diego, California. According to eighteenth-century engravings of the two paintings, both may have originally been as much as a foot higher at the top. Blind Man's Bluff was purchased by the Toledo Museum of Art with funds from the Libbey Endowment, a gift of the glass manufacturer Edward Libbey who founded the museum in 1901.. 
The Lunch. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Lunch is a very early painting by Spanish artist Diego Velázquez, finished c. 1617. The work, an oil painting on canvas, is in the Hermitage Museum of St. Petersburg.The painting portrays a table covered by a creased cloth, on which lie two pomegranates and a piece of bread. People attending the lunch include an aged man on the left and a young man on the right, while, in the background, an apparently carefree boy pours wine into a jug.On the wall in the background hang a white neck-band, a leather bag and, on the right, a sword.. The Lunch is a very early painting by Spanish artist Diego Velázquez, finished c. 1617. The work, an oil painting on canvas, is in the Hermitage Museum of St. Petersburg. The painting portrays a table covered by a creased cloth, on which lie two pomegranates and a piece of bread. People attending the lunch include an aged man on the left and a young man on the right, while, in the background, an apparently carefree boy pours wine into a jug. On the wall in the background hang a white neck-band, a leather bag and, on the right, a sword. The Lunch is nearly identical to another painting by Velázquez, The Farmers' Lunch (1618).. 
L'Enseigne de Gersaint. Author Name: Antoine Watteau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Rococo. . L'Enseigne de Gersaint, or "The Shop Sign of Gersaint", (1720-21) is a painting by Jean-Antoine Watteau, which is considered to be his last masterpiece. It was painted as a shop sign for the marchand-mercier, or art dealer, Edme François Gersaint. According to Daniel Roche the sign functioned more as an advertisement for the artist than the dealer.. L'Enseigne de Gersaint, or "The Shop Sign of Gersaint", (1720-21) is a painting by Jean-Antoine Watteau, which is considered to be his last masterpiece. It was painted as a shop sign for the marchand-mercier, or art dealer, Edme François Gersaint. According to Daniel Roche the sign functioned more as an advertisement for the artist than the dealer. The painting exaggerates the size of Gersaint's cramped boutique, hardly more than a permanent booth with a little backshop, on the medieval Pont Notre-Dame, in the heart of Paris, both creating and following fashion as he purveyed works of art and luxurious trifles to an aristocratic clientele.. 
Marie Curie Gargoyle. Author Name: Wayne Chabre. . . Marie Curie Gargoyle is an outdoor 1989 sculpture by Wayne Chabre, installed on the University of Oregon campus in Eugene, Oregon, in the United States. The hammered copper sheet high-relief of Marie Curie measures approximately 2.5 feet (0.76 m) x 2 feet (0.61 m) x 1.5 feet (0.46 m). It was surveyed by the Smithsonian Institution's "Save Outdoor Sculpture!" program in March 1993, though its condition was undetermined. The sculpture is administered by the University of Oregon.. Marie Curie Gargoyle is an outdoor 1989 sculpture by Wayne Chabre, installed on the University of Oregon campus in Eugene, Oregon, in the United States. The hammered copper sheet high-relief of Marie Curie measures approximately 2.5 feet (0.76 m) x 2 feet (0.61 m) x 1.5 feet (0.46 m). It was surveyed by the Smithsonian Institution's "Save Outdoor Sculpture!" program in March 1993, though its condition was undetermined. The sculpture is administered by the University of Oregon.. 
Union of Lublin. Author Name: Jan Matejko. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/History_painting. . Union of Lublin (Polish: Unia lubelska) is an oil painting by the Polish artist Jan Matejko, finished in 1869, depicting the Union of Lublin.. Union of Lublin (Polish: Unia lubelska) is an oil painting by the Polish artist Jan Matejko, finished in 1869, depicting the Union of Lublin.. 
Bremen Town Musicians. Author Name: Gerhard Marcks. . . Bremen Town Musicians is a public art work by artist Gerhard Marcks located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The bronze sculpture is based on the fairytale by the Brothers Grimm; it is installed on the lawn.. Bremen Town Musicians is a public art work by artist Gerhard Marcks located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The bronze sculpture is based on the fairytale by the Brothers Grimm; it is installed on the lawn.. 
Irises. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Irises is one of many paintings and prints of irises by the Dutch artist Vincent van Gogh. Irises was painted while Vincent van Gogh was living at the asylum at Saint Paul-de-Mausole in Saint-Rémy-de-Provence, France, in the last year before his death in 1890.It was painted before his first attack at the asylum. There is a lack of the high tension which is seen in his later works. He called the painting "the lightning conductor for my illness" because he felt that he could keep himself from going insane by continuing to paint.. Irises is one of many paintings and prints of irises by the Dutch artist Vincent van Gogh. Irises was painted while Vincent van Gogh was living at the asylum at Saint Paul-de-Mausole in Saint-Rémy-de-Provence, France, in the last year before his death in 1890. It was painted before his first attack at the asylum. There is a lack of the high tension which is seen in his later works. He called the painting "the lightning conductor for my illness" because he felt that he could keep himself from going insane by continuing to paint. The painting was influenced by Japanese ukiyo-e woodblock prints like many of his works and those by other artists of the time. The similarities occur with strong outlines, unusual angles, including close-up views, and also flattish local colour (not modelled according to the fall of light). He considered this painting a study which is probably why there are no known drawings for it, although Theo, Van Gogh's brother, thought better of it and quickly submitted it to the annual exhibition of the Société des Artistes Indépendants in September 1889, together with Starry Night Over the Rhone. He wrote to Vincent of the exhibition: "[It] strikes the eye from afar. The Irises are a beautiful study full of air and life.". 
Jean-Claude Richard, Abbot of Saint-Non, Dressed 'à l'Espagnole'. Author Name: Jean-Honoré Fragonard. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Rococo. . The Jean-Claude Richard, Abbot of Saint-Non, Dressed à l'Espagnole is a painting by Jean-Honoré Fragonard conserved at the National Art Museum of Catalonia.. The Jean-Claude Richard, Abbot of Saint-Non, Dressed à l'Espagnole is a painting by Jean-Honoré Fragonard conserved at the National Art Museum of Catalonia.. 
Gualino Madonna. Author Name: Duccio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Gothic_art. . The Gualino Madonna is a painting attributed to Italian late medieval artist Duccio di Buoninsegna. It is housed in the Galleria Sabauda of Turin, northern Italy.. The Gualino Madonna is a painting attributed to Italian late medieval artist Duccio di Buoninsegna. It is housed in the Galleria Sabauda of Turin, northern Italy.. 
Madonna of Foligno. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Madonna of Foligno is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael. First painted on wood panel, it was later transferred to canvas.. The Madonna of Foligno is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael. First painted on wood panel, it was later transferred to canvas.. 
Allegory of the Element Earth. Author Name: Bassano, Leandro. . . Allegory to the Element Earth is a painting by the Venetian Renaissance artist Leandro Bassano of about 1580, now in The Walters Art Museum, Baltimore.. Allegory to the Element Earth is a painting by the Venetian Renaissance artist Leandro Bassano of about 1580, now in The Walters Art Museum, Baltimore.. 
Self-portrait without beard. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Self-portrait without beard is an 1889 oil on canvas painting by the post-impressionist artist Vincent van Gogh. The picture, which may have been Van Gogh's last self-portrait, was painted in September that year. The self-portrait is one of the most expensive paintings of all time, selling for $71.5 million in 1998 in New York. At the time, it was the third (or an inflation-adjusted fourth) most expensive painting ever sold.. Self-portrait without beard is an 1889 oil on canvas painting by the post-impressionist artist Vincent van Gogh. The picture, which may have been Van Gogh's last self-portrait, was painted in September that year. The self-portrait is one of the most expensive paintings of all time, selling for $71.5 million in 1998 in New York. At the time, it was the third (or an inflation-adjusted fourth) most expensive painting ever sold. Art historians are divided as to whether this painting or Self-portrait is Van Gogh's final self-portrait. Ronald Pickvance consider this to be the last, while Ingo F Walther and Jan Hulsker think Self-portrait was the later painting. It was given by van Gogh to his mother as a birthday gift.. 
The Hat Makes the Man. Author Name: Max Ernst. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dada. . The Hat Makes the Man (1920) is a collage by the German dadaist/surrealist Max Ernst. It is composed of cut out images of hats from catalogues linked by gouache and pencil outlines to create abstract anthropomorphic figures. There are inscriptions in ink that read "seed-covered stacked-up man seedless waterformer ('edelformer') well fitting nervous system also tightly fitting nerves! (the hat makes the man) (style is the tailor)." The idea for this work began as a sculpture made from wooden hat molds.. The Hat Makes the Man (1920) is a collage by the German dadaist/surrealist Max Ernst. It is composed of cut out images of hats from catalogues linked by gouache and pencil outlines to create abstract anthropomorphic figures. There are inscriptions in ink that read "seed-covered stacked-up man seedless waterformer ('edelformer') well fitting nervous system also tightly fitting nerves! (the hat makes the man) (style is the tailor)." The idea for this work began as a sculpture made from wooden hat molds. Ernst was an important figure in the dada movement, which often criticized the tastes of mainstream culture and depicted modern man as a conformist automaton... 
Saint Catherine of Alexandria Polyptych. Author Name: Simone Martini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/International_Gothic. . The Saint Catherine of Alexandria Polyptych (also known as Pisa Polyptych) is a painting by the Italian medieval artist Simone Martini, dating to 1320. Originally placed at the high altar of the church of Santa Caterina in Pisa, it is now housed in the Museo Nazionale di San Matteo of the same city.The work is signed SYMON DE SENIS ME PINXIT in the central panel with the Madonna and Child. According to the original convent's annals, the polyptych was placed at the altar in 1320. It was thus completed by that year, having been likely begun in 1319.. The Saint Catherine of Alexandria Polyptych (also known as Pisa Polyptych) is a painting by the Italian medieval artist Simone Martini, dating to 1320. Originally placed at the high altar of the church of Santa Caterina in Pisa, it is now housed in the Museo Nazionale di San Matteo of the same city. The work is signed SYMON DE SENIS ME PINXIT in the central panel with the Madonna and Child. According to the original convent's annals, the polyptych was placed at the altar in 1320. It was thus completed by that year, having been likely begun in 1319.. 
Madonna del Bordone. Author Name: Marcovaldo, Coppo Di. . . The Madonna del Bordone (‘The Madonna of the pilgrim's staff’) is a panel painting by the Italian painter Coppo di Marcovaldo, in the church of Santa Maria dei Servi in Siena, Italy.Signed and dated 1261, the work is the only certain attribution to the Florentine painter. It was painted after he had been taken prisoner in the Battle of Montaperti in 1260, when the Republic of Siena defeated the Republic of Florence. Coppo paid his ransom by executing the work.. The Madonna del Bordone (‘The Madonna of the pilgrim's staff’) is a panel painting by the Italian painter Coppo di Marcovaldo, in the church of Santa Maria dei Servi in Siena, Italy. Signed and dated 1261, the work is the only certain attribution to the Florentine painter. It was painted after he had been taken prisoner in the Battle of Montaperti in 1260, when the Republic of Siena defeated the Republic of Florence. Coppo paid his ransom by executing the work. It portrays the Madonna enthroned with a halo and two small angels on her sides. She is enthroned, and supports the blessing Child, who is holding the Book of the Law in his left hand and has a halo surrounded by a jewelled cross. The heads were painted in the following year by a local artist, who added a sfumato style influenced by that of Duccio di Buoninsegna, but different from Coppo's art. X-Ray analyses have shown the original heads to be characterized by Coppo's typical, rather sketchy manner of painting. Unlike the concentrated abstraction of contemporary works such as those by Margaritone d'Arezzo, in Coppo's Madonna the Child is looking in a tender way at his mother, a gesture aiming to humanize his divine status, but perhaps also to represent the love of the Child for the Catholic Church, symbolized by the Madonna. The posture of the two figures is typical of Byzantine painting of the subject.. 
Miracle of the Slave. Author Name: Tintoretto. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Miracle of the Slave (also known as The Miracle of St. Mark, 1548) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Jacopo Tintoretto. Currently housed in the Gallerie dell'Accademia in Venice, northern Italy, it was originally commissioned for the Scuola Grande di San Marco, a confraternity in the city.Different influences on Tintoretto's art can be seen in the picture: while the anatomies are Michelangelo-like, the vivid and intense colors are typical of the Venetian School.. The Miracle of the Slave (also known as The Miracle of St. Mark, 1548) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Jacopo Tintoretto. Currently housed in the Gallerie dell'Accademia in Venice, northern Italy, it was originally commissioned for the Scuola Grande di San Marco, a confraternity in the city. It portrays an episode of the life of St. Mark, patron saint of Venice, taken from Jacopo da Varazze's Golden Legend. The scene shows, in the upper part, the saint intervening to make invulnerable a slave about to be martyred for his veneration of another saint's relics. All the figures are inscribed into an architectonic scenario. Different influences on Tintoretto's art can be seen in the picture: while the anatomies are Michelangelo-like, the vivid and intense colors are typical of the Venetian School.. 
The Graham Children. Author Name: William  Hogarth. . . The Graham Children is an oil painting completed by William Hogarth in 1742. It is a group portrait depicting the four children of Daniel Graham, apothecary to King George II. The youngest child had died by the time the painting was completed.. The Graham Children is an oil painting completed by William Hogarth in 1742. It is a group portrait depicting the four children of Daniel Graham, apothecary to King George II. The youngest child had died by the time the painting was completed.. 
The Proposition. Author Name: Judith Leyster. . . The Proposition is a genre painting of 1631 by Judith Leyster, now in the Mauritshuis in The Hague, who title it Man offering money to a young woman. It depicts a woman, sewing by candlelight, as a man leans over her, touching her right shoulder with his left hand. He is offering her coins in her right hand, but she is apparently ignoring the offer and concentrating intently upon her sewing.. The Proposition is a genre painting of 1631 by Judith Leyster, now in the Mauritshuis in The Hague, who title it Man offering money to a young woman. It depicts a woman, sewing by candlelight, as a man leans over her, touching her right shoulder with his left hand. He is offering her coins in her right hand, but she is apparently ignoring the offer and concentrating intently upon her sewing. The man wears dark clothing, and the dark tones as well as his shadow cast behind him and across his face from the angle of the candlelight give him a looming appearance. In contrast, the woman is lit fully in the face by the candlelight, and wears a white blouse. It is an early work by Leyster, who was only 22 years old in 1631.. 
Three-Piece Reclining Figure No. 2: Bridge Prop. Author Name: Henry Moore. . Author Movement: Bronze Sculpture, Modernism. . Three-Piece Reclining Figure No. 2: Bridge Prop is a sculpture by Henry Moore, created in 1963, and produced in an edition of six copies.. Three-Piece Reclining Figure No. 2: Bridge Prop is a sculpture by Henry Moore, created in 1963, and produced in an edition of six copies.. 
Black Versace dress of Elizabeth Hurley. Author Name: Versace. . . Elizabeth Hurley wore a black Versace dress, often referred to as "THAT Dress", when she accompanied Hugh Grant to the premiere of Four Weddings and a Funeral in 1994. The dress was held together by several oversized gold safety pins. The dress is perhaps Versace's best-known creation, and is considered by some to be largely responsible for launching Hurley onto the global media stage.. Elizabeth Hurley wore a black Versace dress, often referred to as "THAT Dress", when she accompanied Hugh Grant to the premiere of Four Weddings and a Funeral in 1994. The dress was held together by several oversized gold safety pins. The dress is perhaps Versace's best-known creation, and is considered by some to be largely responsible for launching Hurley onto the global media stage.. 
The Hope of a Condemned Man. Author Name: Joan Miró. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . The Hope of a Condemned Man is a series of three paintings by Joan Miró in 1974 which are now part of the permanent collection of the Joan Miró Foundation in Barcelona.. The Hope of a Condemned Man is a series of three paintings by Joan Miró in 1974 which are now part of the permanent collection of the Joan Miró Foundation in Barcelona.. 
Columbus Fountain. Author Name: Lorado Taft. . . Columbus Fountain is a public artwork by American sculptor Lorado Taft, located at Union Station in Washington, D.C., United States. A centerpiece of Columbus Circle, Columbus Fountain serves as a tribute to the explorer Christopher Columbus.. Columbus Fountain is a public artwork by American sculptor Lorado Taft, located at Union Station in Washington, D.C., United States. A centerpiece of Columbus Circle, Columbus Fountain serves as a tribute to the explorer Christopher Columbus.. 
Red Square. Author Name: Kazimir Malevich. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Suprematism. . Red Square (Painterly Realism of a Peasant Woman in Two Dimensions) (formally titled Painterly Realism of a Peasant Woman in Two Dimensions, more commonly known as Red Square) is a 1915 painting by Kazimir Malevich.The painting is of a red parallelogram on a white field. According to New York Times art critic Grace Gluek, the "Peasant Woman" of the title of the work is represented in the color red of traditional Russian religious icon paintings.Red Square is currently in the collection of the Russian Museum.. Red Square (Painterly Realism of a Peasant Woman in Two Dimensions) (formally titled Painterly Realism of a Peasant Woman in Two Dimensions, more commonly known as Red Square) is a 1915 painting by Kazimir Malevich. The painting is of a red parallelogram on a white field. According to New York Times art critic Grace Gluek, the "Peasant Woman" of the title of the work is represented in the color red of traditional Russian religious icon paintings. Red Square is currently in the collection of the Russian Museum.. 
Argenteuil Basin with a Single Sailboat. Author Name: Claude Monet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Argenteuil Basin with a Single Sailboat is an oil on canvas autumn scene of the basin at Argenteuil, painted by French Impressionist artist Claude Monet in 1874.. Argenteuil Basin with a Single Sailboat is an oil on canvas autumn scene of the basin at Argenteuil, painted by French Impressionist artist Claude Monet in 1874.. 
The Young Shepherdess. Author Name: William-Adolphe Bouguereau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Young Shepherdess is an 1885 painting by William-Adolphe Bouguereau (1825–1905). It is owned by the San Diego Museum of Art.This and similar images by the artist attracted collectors in Europe and America because of their nostalgic content. In such works the artist depicted a variety of poses and expressions, in this case showing the mild curiosity of the girl.. The Young Shepherdess is an 1885 painting by William-Adolphe Bouguereau (1825–1905). It is owned by the San Diego Museum of Art. This and similar images by the artist attracted collectors in Europe and America because of their nostalgic content. In such works the artist depicted a variety of poses and expressions, in this case showing the mild curiosity of the girl. In portraying a shepherdess Bouguereau is working within the pastoral mode or theme, as developed by ancient Greek and Hellenistic artists and poets. French painters who preceded him in this include Claude Lorrain, Poussin, and Watteau.. 
Penitent Magdalene. Author Name: Titian. . . The Penitent Magdalene is a painting of saint Mary Magdalene by Titian dating to around 1533, signed 'TITIANUS' on the vase to the left. It is now in the Palazzo Pitti in Florence.It was commissioned by Francesco Maria I della Rovere, Duke of Urbino, who had already commissioned religious works from Titian. It has been questioned whether or not it is an original work or a copy of an earlier painting Titian produced for his patron Federico Gonzaga. Even if it is a copy, it is an autograph work entirely by Titian himself, since it is signed and was one of the Duke of Urbino's first commissions. Its use of light illuminating the subject from the left contrasts with the dark background landscape of a colourful sunset.. The Penitent Magdalene is a painting of saint Mary Magdalene by Titian dating to around 1533, signed 'TITIANUS' on the vase to the left. It is now in the Palazzo Pitti in Florence. It was commissioned by Francesco Maria I della Rovere, Duke of Urbino, who had already commissioned religious works from Titian. It has been questioned whether or not it is an original work or a copy of an earlier painting Titian produced for his patron Federico Gonzaga. Even if it is a copy, it is an autograph work entirely by Titian himself, since it is signed and was one of the Duke of Urbino's first commissions. Its use of light illuminating the subject from the left contrasts with the dark background landscape of a colourful sunset. The subject of the Magdalene as a sinner and fallen woman returned to the path of virtue by Jesus continued to be very popular in the 16th century, allowing artists to combine eroticism and religion without courting scandal. Titian's version of the subject shows her at a moment of elation and deep repentance, with tears in her eyes (referring to her washing Jesus' feet and drying them with her hair) and her gaze raised heavenwards. Erotic though it is, as Vasari notes, her nudity refers to the medieval legend that her clothes fell apart during the thirty years she spent repenting in the desert after the Ascension of Jesus. Indeed most of the many depictions of the subject in art showed the Magdalen with no clothing at all, or just a loose wrap, as in Titian's later treatment. According to popular works such as the Golden Legend, she spent her last years naked and alone in a hermitage in the mountains of Provence, fed only by the singing angels who visited her daily. Thus her lack of clothing symbolises her abandonment of jewels, gold and worldly goods to her faith in Christ. At the end of the Middle Ages a tradition grew up that she had grown a "suit" of hair all over her body except for her face, hands and feet. This is thought to have originated in liturgical drama and is often depicted in South German art. Titian's depiction achieves a similar effect and may well recall the German treatments.. 
The Kiss. Author Name: Auguste Rodin. . . The Kiss (French: Le Baiser) is an 1889 marble sculpture by the French sculptor Auguste Rodin. The embracing couple depicted in the sculpture appeared originally as part of a group of reliefs decorating Rodin's monumental bronze portal The Gates of Hell, commissioned for a planned museum of art in Paris. The couple were later removed from the Gates and replaced with another pair of lovers located on the smaller right-hand column.. The Kiss (French: Le Baiser) is an 1889 marble sculpture by the French sculptor Auguste Rodin. The embracing couple depicted in the sculpture appeared originally as part of a group of reliefs decorating Rodin's monumental bronze portal The Gates of Hell, commissioned for a planned museum of art in Paris. The couple were later removed from the Gates and replaced with another pair of lovers located on the smaller right-hand column.. 
The Battle of Lepanto. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Counter-Reformation (also the Catholic Revival or Catholic Reformation) was the period of Catholic resurgence beginning with the Council of Trent (1545–1563) and ending at the close of the Thirty Years' War (1648), and was initiated in response to the Protestant Reformation. The Counter-Reformation was a comprehensive effort composed of four major elements:. The Counter-Reformation (also the Catholic Revival or Catholic Reformation) was the period of Catholic resurgence beginning with the Council of Trent (1545–1563) and ending at the close of the Thirty Years' War (1648), and was initiated in response to the Protestant Reformation. The Counter-Reformation was a comprehensive effort composed of four major elements: Such reforms included the foundation of seminaries for the proper training of priests in the spiritual life and the theological traditions of the Church, the reform of religious life by returning orders to their spiritual foundations, and new spiritual movements focusing on the devotional life and a personal relationship with Christ, including the Spanish mystics and the French school of spirituality. It also involved political activities that included the Roman Inquisition. One primary emphasis of the Counter-Reformation was a mission to reach parts of the world that had been colonized as predominantly Catholic and also try to reconvert areas such as Sweden and England that were at one time Roman Catholic.. 
Stormy Sea in Étretat. Author Name: Claude Monet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Stormy Sea in Étretat is an 1883 painting by founder of French impressionist Claude Monet, now preserved at the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Lyon.The painting depicts a stormy sea on a winter day. The cliff that can be seen is that of Étretat (Seine Maritime), as Monet stayed in the city many times from the winter 1864-1865, and wrote: "I spend my time outdoors on the stone when it's big time [...] and of course I work all the time." Monet composed the painting in February 1883 from the window of the hotel he lived then. Subsequently, the painting was bought by the Parisian dealer Paul Durand-Ruel, then became the property of the Museum of Fine Arts in Lyon in 1902. The museum thus became a precursor gaining early in the twentieth century Impressionist paintings.. The Stormy Sea in Étretat is an 1883 painting by founder of French impressionist Claude Monet, now preserved at the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Lyon. The painting depicts a stormy sea on a winter day. The cliff that can be seen is that of Étretat (Seine Maritime), as Monet stayed in the city many times from the winter 1864-1865, and wrote: "I spend my time outdoors on the stone when it's big time [...] and of course I work all the time." Monet composed the painting in February 1883 from the window of the hotel he lived then. Subsequently, the painting was bought by the Parisian dealer Paul Durand-Ruel, then became the property of the Museum of Fine Arts in Lyon in 1902. The museum thus became a precursor gaining early in the twentieth century Impressionist paintings. The painting is composed of four major elements, each painted in a different way. The central part is invaded by the pearlized surfs painted in forms of commas. In the foreground, a small beach on which there are old boats filled with thatch on the left, and two fishermen with their boats in poor condition that ran aground on the shore. On the left, in the background, the cliff of Étretat can be seen and the rock strata are evoked by horizontal lines of brush. Finally, the upper part of the painting shows the sky, painted in a way that expresses a curtain of rain.. 
General View of Mt. Geumgansan or The Diamond Mountains. Author Name: Jeong Seon. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Landscape_painting. . Geumgang jeondo (금강전도 金剛全圖) is a famous landscape painted by Jeong Seon during the reign of King Yeongjo. The title literally means "General view of Mt. Geumgangsan" or The Diamond Mountains). It was classified as the 217th National Treasure of South Korea on August 6, 1984. The painting is currently held and managed by the Ho-Am Art Museum in Yongin, Gyeonggi Province and is owned by Lee Kun-hee.. Geumgang jeondo (금강전도 金剛全圖) is a famous landscape painted by Jeong Seon during the reign of King Yeongjo. The title literally means "General view of Mt. Geumgangsan" or The Diamond Mountains). It was classified as the 217th National Treasure of South Korea on August 6, 1984. The painting is currently held and managed by the Ho-Am Art Museum in Yongin, Gyeonggi Province and is owned by Lee Kun-hee. While many contemporaneous painters imitated the latest art trends from China, Jeong Seon ignored these to create unique themes based on Korean landscapes. His catalogue of paintings of Geumgansan made him famous and the preeminent painter of his time at the age of 37. He eventually painted around 100 images of the mountains which still exist to this day. The artist’s love of the mountains influenced other artists to depict the Diamond Mountains and even encouraged mapmakers to make maps of the area. Although Jeong Seon made many paintings of Mt. Geumgangsan, this painting is the largest and considered his best. Like many of his paintings, Jeong Seon painted this landscape while actually viewing the mountains. The painting is 130.7 centimeters in height and 94.1 centimeters in width. It is painted with India ink. The painting is of Naegeumgang, the Inner Mt. Geumgangsan. The painting depicts a total of twelve thousand peaks. The highest peak, Birobong, lies in the background and water flows from it toward a valley called Manpokdong which is divided from the left and right. The high sharp peaks are depicted by the artist with lines painted up and down while the artist used a dotting brush method to depict the earthen peaks, making them appear relatively soft and lush. This composition harmonizes the contrasting sharp edges of the rocky peaks with the softer earthen peaks. The painter included the title of the painting, some comments, and his pen name, Gyeomjae, in the upper right hand corner. The inscription also dates the painting to 1734 when Jeong Seon was 59 years old. The artist’s comments reads:. 
Mural with Blue Brushstroke. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Mural with Blue Brushstroke is a 1986 mural painting by Roy Lichtenstein that is located in the atrium of the Equitable Tower (now known as the AXA Center) in New York City. The mural was the subject of the book Roy Lichtenstein: Mural With Blue Brushstroke. The mural includes highlights of Lichtenstein's earlier works.. Mural with Blue Brushstroke is a 1986 mural painting by Roy Lichtenstein that is located in the atrium of the Equitable Tower (now known as the AXA Center) in New York City. The mural was the subject of the book Roy Lichtenstein: Mural With Blue Brushstroke. The mural includes highlights of Lichtenstein's earlier works.. 
Pioneer Mother. Author Name: Alexander Phimister Proctor. . . The Pioneer Mother is a sculpture located on the University of Oregon campus in Eugene, Oregon. Burt Barker donated the six-foot-tall bronze sculpture, created by artist Alexander Phimister Proctor, to the university. Barker's daughter, Barbara Barker, introduced the sculpture to a public gathering of hundreds on May 7, 1932, during Junior Week and Mother's Day festivities.. The Pioneer Mother is a sculpture located on the University of Oregon campus in Eugene, Oregon. Burt Barker donated the six-foot-tall bronze sculpture, created by artist Alexander Phimister Proctor, to the university. Barker's daughter, Barbara Barker, introduced the sculpture to a public gathering of hundreds on May 7, 1932, during Junior Week and Mother's Day festivities.. 
Roman Capriccio: The Pantheon and Other Monuments. Author Name: Giovanni Paolo Panini. . . Roman Capriccio: The Pantheon and Other Monuments is a 1735 oil painting by Italian artist Giovanni Paolo Panini, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It depicts an array of famous Roman monuments in a rural setting.. Roman Capriccio: The Pantheon and Other Monuments is a 1735 oil painting by Italian artist Giovanni Paolo Panini, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It depicts an array of famous Roman monuments in a rural setting.. 
Portrait of Bernhart von Reesen. Author Name: Albrecht Dürer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Bernhart von Reesen is a painting by German Renaissance master Albrecht Dürer, dating from 1521, now housed in the Gemäldegalerie Alte Meister of Dresden, Germany.The painting was executed during the artist's trip to the Low Countries (1520–1521). On 16 March 1521, Dürer wrote that he had portrayed in Antwerp one Bernhart von Reesen, being paid eight florins and some small gifts for his wife and maid. The subject is unknown, although he could be one rich merchant from Danzig who was active in the cosmopolitan Flemish port. Other scholars identify him with Bernard van Orley, a painter from Brussels.. The Portrait of Bernhart von Reesen is a painting by German Renaissance master Albrecht Dürer, dating from 1521, now housed in the Gemäldegalerie Alte Meister of Dresden, Germany. The painting was executed during the artist's trip to the Low Countries (1520–1521). On 16 March 1521, Dürer wrote that he had portrayed in Antwerp one Bernhart von Reesen, being paid eight florins and some small gifts for his wife and maid. The subject is unknown, although he could be one rich merchant from Danzig who was active in the cosmopolitan Flemish port. Other scholars identify him with Bernard van Orley, a painter from Brussels. The man is portrayed with black garments, aside from the white shirt under the jacket. His hands, which, according to the Flemish painting tradition, are lying on the lower border, hold a cartouche where it is perhaps written his address.. 
Our Lady of Cardigan. Author Name: Concordia Scott. . . Our Lady of Cardigan (Welsh: Mair o Aberteifi), also known as Our Lady of the Taper, the Catholic national shrine of Wales, is a statue of the Blessed Virgin Mary created by Sr Concordia Scott and located in a chapel in Cardigan, Ceredigion, Wales.. Our Lady of Cardigan (Welsh: Mair o Aberteifi), also known as Our Lady of the Taper, the Catholic national shrine of Wales, is a statue of the Blessed Virgin Mary created by Sr Concordia Scott and located in a chapel in Cardigan, Ceredigion, Wales.. 
LOVE. Author Name: Robert Indiana. . . LOVE is an artwork by American artist Robert Indiana, located at the Indianapolis Museum of Art (IMA), in Indianapolis, Indiana, in the United States. It was created in 1970 as the first sculptural form of the artist's famous LOVE painting and has been on continuous exhibition at the Indianapolis Museum of Art since it was acquired in 1975.. LOVE is an artwork by American artist Robert Indiana, located at the Indianapolis Museum of Art (IMA), in Indianapolis, Indiana, in the United States. It was created in 1970 as the first sculptural form of the artist's famous LOVE painting and has been on continuous exhibition at the Indianapolis Museum of Art since it was acquired in 1975.. 
Tomb of Pope Alexander VII. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Tomb of Pope Alexander VII is a sculptural monument designed and partially executed by the Italian artist Gianlorenzo Bernini. It is located in the south transept of St. Peter's Basilica in the Vatican City. The piece was commissioned by Pope Alexander VII himself. However, construction of the monument didn't start until 1671 and was completed in 1678, eleven years after the Pope's death. At the age of 81, this would be Bernini's last major sculptural commission before his death in 1680.. The Tomb of Pope Alexander VII is a sculptural monument designed and partially executed by the Italian artist Gianlorenzo Bernini. It is located in the south transept of St. Peter's Basilica in the Vatican City. The piece was commissioned by Pope Alexander VII himself. However, construction of the monument didn't start until 1671 and was completed in 1678, eleven years after the Pope's death. At the age of 81, this would be Bernini's last major sculptural commission before his death in 1680.. 
Officer and Laughing Girl. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . Officer and Laughing Girl, also known as Officer and a Laughing Girl, Officer With a Laughing Girl or De Soldaat en het Lachende Meisje, was painted by the Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer between 1655 and 1660. It was painted in oil on canvas, typical of most Dutch artists of the time, and is 50.5 by 46 cm. It now resides in The Frick Collection in New York.. Officer and Laughing Girl, also known as Officer and a Laughing Girl, Officer With a Laughing Girl or De Soldaat en het Lachende Meisje, was painted by the Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer between 1655 and 1660. It was painted in oil on canvas, typical of most Dutch artists of the time, and is 50.5 by 46 cm. It now resides in The Frick Collection in New York. Officer and Laughing Girl includes many of the characteristics of Vermeer's style. The main subject is a woman in a yellow dress, light is coming from the left hand side of the painting from an open window, and there is a large map on the wall. Each of these elements occur in some of his other paintings, although this painting differs slightly with the man also sitting at the table. Art historians, who have suggested conflicting interpretations of the work, believe that a painting by Gerard van Honthorst inspired the composition, and that Vermeer used a camera obscura to create the perspective in this painting.. 
Swann Memorial Fountain. Author Name: Alexander Stirling Calder. . . The Swann Memorial Fountain (also known as the Fountain of the Three Rivers) is a fountain sculpture located in the center of Logan Circle in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States.The fountain, by Alexander Stirling Calder designed with architect Wilson Eyre, memorializes Dr. Wilson Cary Swann, founder of the Philadelphia Fountain Society. The Society had been planning a memorial fountain in honor of its late president and founder. After agreeing that the fountain would become city property, the society was granted the site in the center of Logan Circle.. The Swann Memorial Fountain (also known as the Fountain of the Three Rivers) is a fountain sculpture located in the center of Logan Circle in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States. The fountain, by Alexander Stirling Calder designed with architect Wilson Eyre, memorializes Dr. Wilson Cary Swann, founder of the Philadelphia Fountain Society. The Society had been planning a memorial fountain in honor of its late president and founder. After agreeing that the fountain would become city property, the society was granted the site in the center of Logan Circle. Adapting the tradition of “river god” sculpture, Calder created large Native American figures to symbolize the area's major streams, the Delaware, the Schuylkill, and the Wissahickon. The young girl leaning on her side against an agitated, water-spouting swan represents the Wissahickon Creek; the mature woman holding the neck of a swan stands for the Schuylkill River; and the male figure, reaching above his head to grasp his bow as a large pike sprays water over him, symbolizes the Delaware River. Sculpted frogs and turtles spout water toward the 50-foot (15 m) geyser in the center, though typically the geyser only spouts 25 ft (8 m). The use of swans is a pun on Dr. Swann's name. Eyre designed the basin and the interlacing water jets, including the central geyser. During warm months, swimming in the fountain is a long-standing Philadelphia tradition. In the summer of 2006, the City of Philadelphia began enforcing a swimming ban with a nearly constant security presence, but the ban was eliminated in 2009. Besides serving as the center of Logan Square, the Fountain also stands as the midpoint on the Ben Franklin Parkway, which includes also sculptures by two other generations of the Calder family. Stirling Calder's father, Alexander Milne Calder, designed the statue of William Penn atop the tower of City Hall at the southeast end, while, at the Philadelphia Museum of Art on the northwest end, the mobile Ghosts is by Alexander Calder, Stirling Calder's son. This led to a local wit referring to the three sculptures as the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost. For many years the fountain was framed by a magnificent circle of Paulownia trees, which have since been replaced. The fountain rose to small fame due to its mention in songs by the pop punk band, The Wonder Years. The song Logan Circle from the album The Upsides opens with "They turned on the fountain today at Logan Circle." There are several fountain references, and references to the city of Philadelphia in the band's lyrics. It is also featured in the Philly level of Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2.. 
Red Tarvydas dress. Author Name: Ruth Tarvydas. . . The red Tarvydas dress of Rebecca Twigley refers to the revealing red dress worn by Australian model Rebecca Twigley (who assumed the married name Rebecca Judd in 2010), to the 2004 Brownlow Medal ceremony on 20 September 2004 at the Crown Casino and Entertainment Complex in Melbourne, Australia. The custom-made dress was designed by Ruth Tarvydas and was valued at A$2,000.. The red Tarvydas dress of Rebecca Twigley refers to the revealing red dress worn by Australian model Rebecca Twigley (who assumed the married name Rebecca Judd in 2010), to the 2004 Brownlow Medal ceremony on 20 September 2004 at the Crown Casino and Entertainment Complex in Melbourne, Australia. The custom-made dress was designed by Ruth Tarvydas and was valued at A$2,000.. 
Thatched Cottages and Houses. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Thatched Cottages and Houses is an oil painting by Vincent van Gogh that he painted in May 1890 when he lived in Auvers-sur-Oise, France.Van Gogh spent the last few months of his life in Auvers-sur-Oise, a small town just north of Paris, after he left the asylum in Saint-Rémy in May 1890.The painting is in the collection of the State Hermitage Museum, St. Petersburg.See Van Gogh, Artistic breakthrough and final years, Auves-sur-Oise. Thatched Cottages and Houses is an oil painting by Vincent van Gogh that he painted in May 1890 when he lived in Auvers-sur-Oise, France. Van Gogh spent the last few months of his life in Auvers-sur-Oise, a small town just north of Paris, after he left the asylum in Saint-Rémy in May 1890. Thatched Cottages and Houses is thought to be the study he mentions in his letter of 21 May 1890 to his brother Theo and wife Jo immediately after arriving in Auvers:"... when I wrote to you I hadn’t yet done anything. Now I have a study of old thatched roofs with a field of peas in flower and some wheat in the foreground, hilly background. A study which I think you’ll like." Hulsker believes the painting is amongst a group of 20 or so works executed by Vincent immediately after his arrival in Auvers, May 20, and the remainder of the month:" ... we immediately see in this painting the bright colours that, generally speaking, are characteristic of the Auvers period and differentiate them somewhat from the paintings done in Saint-Rémy - although there is naturally no question of a real break with the past from one week to the next." The painting is in the collection of the State Hermitage Museum, St. Petersburg. See Van Gogh, Artistic breakthrough and final years, Auves-sur-Oise. 
Saint John the Evangelist. Author Name: Domenico Zampieri. . . Saint John the Evangelist is a painting by the Italian Baroque painter Domenichino. In February 2014 it was on display in the National Gallery, London, on loan from a private collection.. Saint John the Evangelist is a painting by the Italian Baroque painter Domenichino. In February 2014 it was on display in the National Gallery, London, on loan from a private collection.. 
Personnage Oiseaux. Author Name: Joan Miró. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . Personnage Oiseaux is one of Joan Miró's largest works in the United States and his only glass mosaic mural, (Bird Characters), 1972–1978.. Personnage Oiseaux is one of Joan Miró's largest works in the United States and his only glass mosaic mural, (Bird Characters), 1972–1978.. 
The Family Group. Author Name: Charles Umlauf. . . The Family Group is an outdoor sculpture by Charles Umlauf, installed outside the McCombs School of Business on the University of Texas at Austin campus in Austin, Texas, United States. The statue group represents the "most basic economic unit of society".. The Family Group is an outdoor sculpture by Charles Umlauf, installed outside the McCombs School of Business on the University of Texas at Austin campus in Austin, Texas, United States. The statue group represents the "most basic economic unit of society".. 
Annunciation. Author Name: Titian. . . The Annunciation is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Titian, executed between 1559 and 1564. It is housed in the church of San Salvador, Venice, northern Italy.. The Annunciation is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Titian, executed between 1559 and 1564. It is housed in the church of San Salvador, Venice, northern Italy.. 
The Day Dream. Author Name: Dante Gabriel Rossetti. . . The Day Dream or, as it was initially intended to be named, Monna Primavera, is an oil on canvas painting by the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood founder Dante Gabriel Rossetti. The work, which measures 158.7 centimetres (62.5 in) in height by 92.7 centimetres (36.5 in) wide, was undertaken in 1880 and depicts Jane Morris posed in a seated position on the bough of a sycamore tree. A small stem of honeysuckle is in her hand, a token of love in the Victorian era, that may be an indication of the secret affair the artist was immersed in with her at the time. The artwork was left to the Victoria and Albert Museum by Constantine Alexander Ionides in 1900.. The Day Dream or, as it was initially intended to be named, Monna Primavera, is an oil on canvas painting by the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood founder Dante Gabriel Rossetti. The work, which measures 158.7 centimetres (62.5 in) in height by 92.7 centimetres (36.5 in) wide, was undertaken in 1880 and depicts Jane Morris posed in a seated position on the bough of a sycamore tree. A small stem of honeysuckle is in her hand, a token of love in the Victorian era, that may be an indication of the secret affair the artist was immersed in with her at the time. The artwork was left to the Victoria and Albert Museum by Constantine Alexander Ionides in 1900.. 
The Temptation of St. Anthony. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . The Temptation of St. Anthony is a panel by Hieronymus Bosch. It is currently housed in the Museo del Prado in Madrid.. The Temptation of St. Anthony is a panel by Hieronymus Bosch. It is currently housed in the Museo del Prado in Madrid.. 
Bust of Sherman Minton. Author Name: Gage, Robert Merrell. . . The bust of Sherman Minton is a public artwork by American artist Robert Merrell Gage, located on the main floor of the Indiana Statehouse, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. Cast in bronze in 1956, it was commissioned to honor politician and Indiana native Sherman Minton.. The bust of Sherman Minton is a public artwork by American artist Robert Merrell Gage, located on the main floor of the Indiana Statehouse, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. Cast in bronze in 1956, it was commissioned to honor politician and Indiana native Sherman Minton.. 
Ulysses Deriding Polyphemus. Author Name: J. M. W. Turner. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . Ulysses Deriding Polyphemus is an 1829 oil painting by Joseph Mallord William Turner. It depicts a scene from Homer's Odyssey, showing Odysseus (Ulysses) standing on his ship deriding Polyphemus, one of the cyclopes he encounters and has recently blinded, who is disguised behind one of the mountains on the left side. Additional details include the Trojan horse, a scene from Virgil's Aeneid, on one of the flags and the horses of Apollo rising above the horizon. The painting was exhibited at the Royal Academy of Arts in 1829. Acquired by the National Gallery in 1856, the painting is currently on display in room 34.. Ulysses Deriding Polyphemus is an 1829 oil painting by Joseph Mallord William Turner. It depicts a scene from Homer's Odyssey, showing Odysseus (Ulysses) standing on his ship deriding Polyphemus, one of the cyclopes he encounters and has recently blinded, who is disguised behind one of the mountains on the left side. Additional details include the Trojan horse, a scene from Virgil's Aeneid, on one of the flags and the horses of Apollo rising above the horizon. The painting was exhibited at the Royal Academy of Arts in 1829. Acquired by the National Gallery in 1856, the painting is currently on display in room 34.. 
Lady Lilith. Author Name: Dante Gabriel Rossetti. . . Lady Lilith is an oil painting by Dante Gabriel Rossetti first painted in 1866–68 using his mistress Fanny Cornforth as the model, then altered in 1872–73 to show the face of Alexa Wilding. The subject is Lilith, who was, according to ancient Judaic myth, "the first wife of Adam" and is associated with the seduction of men and the murder of children. She is shown as a "powerful and evil temptress" and as "an iconic, Amazon-like female with long, flowing hair.". Lady Lilith is an oil painting by Dante Gabriel Rossetti first painted in 1866–68 using his mistress Fanny Cornforth as the model, then altered in 1872–73 to show the face of Alexa Wilding. The subject is Lilith, who was, according to ancient Judaic myth, "the first wife of Adam" and is associated with the seduction of men and the murder of children. She is shown as a "powerful and evil temptress" and as "an iconic, Amazon-like female with long, flowing hair." Rossetti overpainted Cornforth's face, perhaps at the suggestion of his client, shipping magnate Frederick Richards Leyland, who displayed the painting in his drawing room with five other Rossetti "stunners." After Leyland's death, the painting was purchased by Samuel Bancroft and Bancroft's estate donated it in 1935 to the Delaware Art Museum where it is now displayed. The painting forms a pair with Sibylla Palmifera, painted 1866–70, also with Wilding as the model. Lady Lilith represents the body's beauty, according to Rossetti's sonnet inscribed on the frame. Sibylla Palmifera represents the soul's beauty, according to the Rossetti sonnet on its frame. A large 1867 replica of Lady Lilith, painted by Rossetti in watercolor, which shows the face of Cornforth, is now owned by New York's Metropolitan Museum of Art. It has a verse from Goethe's Faust as translated by Shelley on a label attached by Rossetti to its frame:. 
Albertine at the Police Doctor's Waiting Room. Author Name: Christian Krohg. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Albertine i politilægens venteværelse (English: Albertine at the Police Doctor's Waiting Room; finished 1887) is the title of a naturalist painting by Norwegian artist Christian Krohg, showing the scene in a waiting room.Albertine i politilægens venteværelse is regarded as Krohg's principal work as a social painter. The painting touched the taboo subject of sexual life, and led to a heated debate among his contemporaries. The format of the painting is unusually large; people are portrayed in full scale. The painting is held in the National Gallery in Oslo.. Albertine i politilægens venteværelse (English: Albertine at the Police Doctor's Waiting Room; finished 1887) is the title of a naturalist painting by Norwegian artist Christian Krohg, showing the scene in a waiting room. Albertine i politilægens venteværelse is regarded as Krohg's principal work as a social painter. The painting touched the taboo subject of sexual life, and led to a heated debate among his contemporaries. The format of the painting is unusually large; people are portrayed in full scale. The painting is held in the National Gallery in Oslo.. 
Chartist Mural. Author Name: Kenneth George Budd. . . The Chartist Mural was a mosaic mural designed by Kenneth Budd and created in 1978 in a pedestrian underpass in Newport, South Wales. It commemorated the Newport Rising of 1839, in which an estimated 22 demonstrators were killed by troops. It was 115 feet (35 m) long and 13 feet (4.0 m) high. The mural was controversially destroyed in 2013 despite some public opposition and protests, before adjacent buildings were demolished to make way for the Friars Walk redevelopment.. The Chartist Mural was a mosaic mural designed by Kenneth Budd and created in 1978 in a pedestrian underpass in Newport, South Wales. It commemorated the Newport Rising of 1839, in which an estimated 22 demonstrators were killed by troops. It was 115 feet (35 m) long and 13 feet (4.0 m) high. The mural was controversially destroyed in 2013 despite some public opposition and protests, before adjacent buildings were demolished to make way for the Friars Walk redevelopment.. 
Head of St. John the Baptist. Author Name: Giovanni Bellini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The head of St. John the Baptist is a tondo painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini. It is now housed in the Civic Museum of Pesaro.The painting depicts the head of the St. John the Baptist just after his decapitation, with blood still dripping from the neck. The perspective from below show the influence of the treatises about perspective representation of the human figure which were being published at the time, such as Piero della Francesca's De prospectiva pingendi.. The head of St. John the Baptist is a tondo painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini. It is now housed in the Civic Museum of Pesaro. The painting depicts the head of the St. John the Baptist just after his decapitation, with blood still dripping from the neck. The perspective from below show the influence of the treatises about perspective representation of the human figure which were being published at the time, such as Piero della Francesca's De prospectiva pingendi. Stylistically, the brilliant colors and the dramatic painting are similar to those of St. Vincent Ferrer Polyptych, the first mature work by Bellini, dated to after 1464.. 
Sacred and Profane Love. Author Name: Titian. . . Sacred and Profane Love (Italian: Amor Sacro e Amor Profano, also called Venus and the Bride) is an oil painting by Titian, painted c. 1514. The painting is presumed to have been commissioned by Niccolò Aurelio, a secretary to the Venetian Council of Ten (so identified because his coat of arms appears on the sarcophagus or fountain in the centre of the image) to celebrate his marriage to a young widow, Laura Bagarotto. It perhaps depicts the bride dressed in white, sitting beside Cupid and being assisted by Venus in person.. Sacred and Profane Love (Italian: Amor Sacro e Amor Profano, also called Venus and the Bride) is an oil painting by Titian, painted c. 1514. The painting is presumed to have been commissioned by Niccolò Aurelio, a secretary to the Venetian Council of Ten (so identified because his coat of arms appears on the sarcophagus or fountain in the centre of the image) to celebrate his marriage to a young widow, Laura Bagarotto. It perhaps depicts the bride dressed in white, sitting beside Cupid and being assisted by Venus in person.. 
Artist's Studio Look Mickey. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Artist's Studio—Look Mickey (sometimes Artist's Studio, Look Mickey, Artist's Studio – Look Mickey or Artist's Studio No. 1 (Look Mickey)) is a 1973 painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It is one of five large-scale studio interior paintings in a series. The series is either referred to as the Artist's Studio series or more colloquially as the Studios and sometimes is described as excluding the other 1973 painting, reducing the series to four.. Artist's Studio—Look Mickey (sometimes Artist's Studio, Look Mickey, Artist's Studio – Look Mickey or Artist's Studio No. 1 (Look Mickey)) is a 1973 painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It is one of five large-scale studio interior paintings in a series. The series is either referred to as the Artist's Studio series or more colloquially as the Studios and sometimes is described as excluding the other 1973 painting, reducing the series to four. The series refers to a set of works by Henri Matisse, with this work specifically referring to L'Atelier Rouge. The work incorporates several other Lichtenstein's works and gets its name from the large portion of Lichtenstein's Look Mickey that is included. Lichtenstein used a much more realistic representation of his own works than is standard for most artists. Elements of the work also refer to works from both Fernand Léger and Matisse.. 
The Prophet Jonah. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Prophet Jonah is one of the seven Old Testament prophets painted by the Italian High Renaissance master Michelangelo (c. 1542–1545) on the Sistine Chapel ceiling. The Sistine Chapel is in Vatican Palace, in the Vatican City.This particular fresco is painted above the High Altar, as the person of Jonah is of prophetic significance in Christianity. Behind the figure of Jonah, Michelangelo has painted a large fish, a reference to the story of Jonah, in which he is swallowed by a whale.. The Prophet Jonah is one of the seven Old Testament prophets painted by the Italian High Renaissance master Michelangelo (c. 1542–1545) on the Sistine Chapel ceiling. The Sistine Chapel is in Vatican Palace, in the Vatican City. This particular fresco is painted above the High Altar, as the person of Jonah is of prophetic significance in Christianity. Behind the figure of Jonah, Michelangelo has painted a large fish, a reference to the story of Jonah, in which he is swallowed by a whale.. 
Two Circle Sentinel. Author Name: David Smith. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . Two Circle Sentinel is an outdoor 1961 stainless steel sculpture by David Smith, installed at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston's Lillie and Hugh Roy Cullen Sculpture Garden in the U.S. state of Texas. It was purchased using monetary contributions provided by the Brown Foundation Accessions Endowment Fund in memory of Alice Pratt Brown.. Two Circle Sentinel is an outdoor 1961 stainless steel sculpture by David Smith, installed at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston's Lillie and Hugh Roy Cullen Sculpture Garden in the U.S. state of Texas. It was purchased using monetary contributions provided by the Brown Foundation Accessions Endowment Fund in memory of Alice Pratt Brown.. 
Jabach Altarpiece. Author Name: Albrecht Dürer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Jabach Altarpiece is a oil on lime tree panel painting by German Renaissance artist Albrecht Dürer, executed around 1503-1504. Once formed by three panels, only the side ones are now preserved: the right picture, measuring 96×54 cm, is housed in the Wallraf-Richartz Museum of Cologne; the left picture, measuring 96×51 cm, is housed in the Städel of Frankfurt.. The Jabach Altarpiece is a oil on lime tree panel painting by German Renaissance artist Albrecht Dürer, executed around 1503-1504. Once formed by three panels, only the side ones are now preserved: the right picture, measuring 96×54 cm, is housed in the Wallraf-Richartz Museum of Cologne; the left picture, measuring 96×51 cm, is housed in the Städel of Frankfurt.. 
The Four Continents. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Four Continents, also known as The Four Rivers of Paradise, is a painting by Flemish artist Peter Paul Rubens, made in the 1610s. It depicts the female personifications of four continents (Europe, Asia, Africa and America) sitting with the personifications of their respective major rivers – the Danube, the Ganges, the Nile and the Río de la Plata. Europe is shown on the left, Africa in the middle, Asia on the right and America behind it, to the left. The tigress, protecting the cubs from the crocodile, is used as a symbol of Asia. The personification of the Danube holds a rudder. The bottom part of the painting shows several putti. Painted during a period of truce between the Dutch Republic and Spain, the river allegories and their female companions in a lush, bountiful setting reflect. The Four Continents, also known as The Four Rivers of Paradise, is a painting by Flemish artist Peter Paul Rubens, made in the 1610s. It depicts the female personifications of four continents (Europe, Asia, Africa and America) sitting with the personifications of their respective major rivers – the Danube, the Ganges, the Nile and the Río de la Plata. Europe is shown on the left, Africa in the middle, Asia on the right and America behind it, to the left. The tigress, protecting the cubs from the crocodile, is used as a symbol of Asia. The personification of the Danube holds a rudder. The bottom part of the painting shows several putti. Painted during a period of truce between the Dutch Republic and Spain, the river allegories and their female companions in a lush, bountiful setting reflect the conditions that Rubens hoped would return to Antwerp after military hostilities. Artist Elizabeth McGrath proposed a different interpretation of the female figures on the painting, believing them to be nymphs instead. McGrath also suggested different river names, the Tigris instead of the Danube and the Euphrates instead of the Río de la Plata, arguing that those names also appear in Christian exegesis.. 
The Elder Sister. Author Name: William-Adolphe Bouguereau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Elder Sister (French: La soeur aînée) is a painting by nineteenth century French artist William-Adolphe Bouguereau in 1869. The painting was acquired by the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston in 1992 as an anonymous gift. According to the museum web site, this was a gift of an anonymous lady in memory of her father. Since then, The Elder Sister has been a part of the permanent collection of the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston (in the "Arts of Europe" section). It has become one of the most notable highlights in museum's collection of paintings.. The Elder Sister (French: La soeur aînée) is a painting by nineteenth century French artist William-Adolphe Bouguereau in 1869. The painting was acquired by the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston in 1992 as an anonymous gift. According to the museum web site, this was a gift of an anonymous lady in memory of her father. Since then, The Elder Sister has been a part of the permanent collection of the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston (in the "Arts of Europe" section). It has become one of the most notable highlights in museum's collection of paintings. The painting shows a girl ("the elder sister") sitting on a rock and holding a sleeping baby ("the younger brother") on her lap, with a quiet rural landscape behind them. For this scene, Bouguereau's daughter Henriette and son Paul served as models. The beauty of the girl and her eyes, which are looking directly at the viewer, as well the balance of the composition, including positioning of the legs and arms of the children, demonstrate Bouguereau's academic painting style. The dimensions of the painting are 51¼ × 38¼ in (130.2 × 97.2 cm) and the frame is 67½ × 55 × 5½ in (171.5 × 139.7 × 14 cm). There is also another painting by Bouguereau called The Elder Sister (completed in 1864), currently belonging to the permanent collection in the Brooklyn Museum.. 
Pollice Verso. Author Name: Jean-Léon Gérôme. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Orientalism. . Pollice Verso (from Latin: with a turned thumb) is a painting by French artist Jean-Léon Gérôme, featuring the eponymous Roman gesture directed to the winning gladiators.The gesture on the painting is given by the Vestals to the victorious murmillo, awaiting the decision on the beaten retiarius at the Colosseum. The painting inspired the 2000 film Gladiator, where Commodus holds out a raised thumb to spare Maximus.. Pollice Verso (from Latin: with a turned thumb) is a painting by French artist Jean-Léon Gérôme, featuring the eponymous Roman gesture directed to the winning gladiators. The gesture on the painting is given by the Vestals to the victorious murmillo, awaiting the decision on the beaten retiarius at the Colosseum. The painting inspired the 2000 film Gladiator, where Commodus holds out a raised thumb to spare Maximus.. 
The Communion of the Apostles. Author Name: Federico Barocci. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Communion of the Apostles, or Institution of the Eucharist is a painting of the Last Supper by Federico Barocci located at Santa Maria sopra Minerva in Rome. It was commissioned for the family chapel of Pope Clement VIII Aldobrandini and completed between 1603 and 1608.Barocci asked 1,500 scudi for the altarpiece. The fee undoubtedly was influenced by the number of figures. At the same point in his career (1604), he had accepted 300 scudi for a much simpler Crucifixion (Museo del Prado, Madrid).. The Communion of the Apostles, or Institution of the Eucharist is a painting of the Last Supper by Federico Barocci located at Santa Maria sopra Minerva in Rome. It was commissioned for the family chapel of Pope Clement VIII Aldobrandini and completed between 1603 and 1608. It was most likely the sight of Barocci's Presentation of the Virgin in the Chiesa Nuova at its unveiling in 1603 that led to the commission of the Communion four months later. On 13 August 1603 the pope communicated with the minister to Francesco Maria II della Rovere, duke of Urbino, Giacomo Sorbolongo, about acquiring an altarpiece from Barocci. At this time the Cavaliere d'Arpino was the pope's most important artist; the letter goes on to ask that d'Arpino not be told of the commission. The commission was completed entirely in Urbino and efforts were made to supply Barocci with extensive information about the contextual chapel, which was frescoed by Cherubino Alberti with a Triumph of the Holy Cross. Gian Pietro Bellori wrote that the pope was supplied with preparatory sketches. The pope sought the removal of Satan from the original design, and thereafter asked that it depict a night scene. Barocci quotes from Raphael's School of Athens by inserting the portrait of Heraclitus, which many believe is a portrait of Michelangelo. Significantly, he depicts Judas Iscariot using Michelangelo's portrait. To an audience familiar with this association, this would have been taken as particularly strong commentary on the status of the Michelangelo. Furthermore, by directly quoting from Raphael, who was Michelangelo's antithesis and favoured by the Clementine church, Barocci, and by implication Pope Clement VIII, inserted a comment on the relative status of the two artists within the church of the time. Barocci asked 1,500 scudi for the altarpiece. The fee undoubtedly was influenced by the number of figures. At the same point in his career (1604), he had accepted 300 scudi for a much simpler Crucifixion (Museo del Prado, Madrid).. 
Memorial Statue of Pope Urban VIII. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Statue of Urban VIII is a large statue from the late 1630s, of the then pope Urban VIII. It was executed by Gian Lorenzo Bernini and his workshop. The work was commissioned in 1635 and took five years to complete. The piece sits in the Palazzo dei Conservatori in Rome. A print of the statue exists in the National Library of Austria.. The Statue of Urban VIII is a large statue from the late 1630s, of the then pope Urban VIII. It was executed by Gian Lorenzo Bernini and his workshop. The work was commissioned in 1635 and took five years to complete. The piece sits in the Palazzo dei Conservatori in Rome. A print of the statue exists in the National Library of Austria.. 
Garden at Sainte-Adresse. Author Name: Claude Monet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Garden at Sainte-Adresse is a painting by the French impressionist painter, Claude Monet. (Oil on canvas, 98.1 cm x 129.9 cm). The painting was acquired by the Metropolitan Museum of Art after an auction sale at Christie's in December 1967, under the French title La terrasse à Sainte-Adresse. The painting was exhibited at the 4th Impressionist exhibition, Paris, April 10–May 11, 1879, as no. 157 under the title Jardin à Sainte-Adresse.. The Garden at Sainte-Adresse is a painting by the French impressionist painter, Claude Monet. (Oil on canvas, 98.1 cm x 129.9 cm). The painting was acquired by the Metropolitan Museum of Art after an auction sale at Christie's in December 1967, under the French title La terrasse à Sainte-Adresse. The painting was exhibited at the 4th Impressionist exhibition, Paris, April 10–May 11, 1879, as no. 157 under the title Jardin à Sainte-Adresse.. 
The Night. Author Name: Max Beckmann. . Author Movement: German Expressionism. . The Night is a 20th-century painting by German artist Max Beckmann, created between the years of 1918 and 1919. It is an icon of the post-World War I movement, Neue Sachlichkeit, or New Objectivity. It is an oil painting on canvas, located at the Kunstsammlung Nordrhein-Westfalen, Düsseldorf.. The Night is a 20th-century painting by German artist Max Beckmann, created between the years of 1918 and 1919. It is an icon of the post-World War I movement, Neue Sachlichkeit, or New Objectivity. It is an oil painting on canvas, located at the Kunstsammlung Nordrhein-Westfalen, Düsseldorf.. 
Bacchus and Ariadne. Author Name: Titian. . . Bacchus and Ariadne (1522–1523) is an oil painting by Titian. It is one of a cycle of paintings on mythological subjects produced for Alfonso I d'Este, Duke of Ferrara, for the Camerino d'Alabastro – a private room in his palazzo in Ferrara decorated with paintings based on classical texts. An advance payment was given to Raphael, who originally held the commission for the subject of a Triumph of Bacchus. At the time of Raphael's death in 1520, only a preliminary drawing was completed and the commission was then handed to Titian. In the case of Bacchus and Ariadne, the subject matter was derived from the Roman poets Catullus and Ovid. The painting, considered one of Titian's greatest works, now hangs in the National Gallery in London. The other major paintings in the cycle are The Feast of. Bacchus and Ariadne (1522–1523) is an oil painting by Titian. It is one of a cycle of paintings on mythological subjects produced for Alfonso I d'Este, Duke of Ferrara, for the Camerino d'Alabastro – a private room in his palazzo in Ferrara decorated with paintings based on classical texts. An advance payment was given to Raphael, who originally held the commission for the subject of a Triumph of Bacchus. At the time of Raphael's death in 1520, only a preliminary drawing was completed and the commission was then handed to Titian. In the case of Bacchus and Ariadne, the subject matter was derived from the Roman poets Catullus and Ovid. The painting, considered one of Titian's greatest works, now hangs in the National Gallery in London. The other major paintings in the cycle are The Feast of the Gods (mostly by Giovanni Bellini, now in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C), and Titian's The Bacchanal of the Andrians and The Worship of Venus (both now in the Museo del Prado, Madrid). .. 
Virgin and Child with the Infant St. John the Baptist. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Virgin and Child with the Infant Saint John the Baptist is a tempera painting on wood executed by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli and his studio (Bartolomeo di Giovanni or Raffaelino di'Carli). The tondo, painted in Florence between the years of 1490 and 1500, addresses a central theme of the Italian Renaissance art: the divine motherhood. The work is currently housed in the São Paulo Museum of Art.. The Virgin and Child with the Infant Saint John the Baptist is a tempera painting on wood executed by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli and his studio (Bartolomeo di Giovanni or Raffaelino di'Carli). The tondo, painted in Florence between the years of 1490 and 1500, addresses a central theme of the Italian Renaissance art: the divine motherhood. The work is currently housed in the São Paulo Museum of Art.. 
Prada Marfa. Author Name: Elmgreen and Dragset. . . Prada Marfa is a permanently installed sculpture by artists Elmgreen and Dragset, situated 1.4 miles (2.3 km) northwest of Valentine, Texas, just off U.S. Highway 90 (US 90), and about 26 miles (42 km) northwest of the city of Marfa. The installation was inaugurated on October 1, 2005. The artists called the work a "pop architectural land art project.". Prada Marfa is a permanently installed sculpture by artists Elmgreen and Dragset, situated 1.4 miles (2.3 km) northwest of Valentine, Texas, just off U.S. Highway 90 (US 90), and about 26 miles (42 km) northwest of the city of Marfa. The installation was inaugurated on October 1, 2005. The artists called the work a "pop architectural land art project." The sculpture, realized with the assistance of American architects Ronald Rael and Virginia San Fratello, cost $80,000 and was intended to never be repaired, so it might slowly degrade back into the natural landscape. This plan was deviated from when, six days after the sculpture was completed, vandals graffitied the exterior, and broke into the building stealing handbags and shoes.. 
The Sampling Officials. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Sampling Officials (Dutch: De Staalmeesters), also called Syndics of the Drapers' Guild, is a 1662 oil painting by Rembrandt. It is currently owned by the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam. It has been described as his "last great collective portrait".The men, who are appraising a length of Persian-style fabric against exemplars from a swatch book, are (from left to right):The guild commissioned this portrait and it hung in their guild hall, the nl:Staalhof (Amsterdam), until 1771.. The Sampling Officials (Dutch: De Staalmeesters), also called Syndics of the Drapers' Guild, is a 1662 oil painting by Rembrandt. It is currently owned by the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam. It has been described as his "last great collective portrait". The men (with the exception of Bel who is an attendant as indicated by his calotte) are drapers who were elected to assess the quality of cloth that weavers offered for sale to members of their guild. Their one-year terms in office began on Good Friday and they were expected to conduct their inspections thrice weekly. The Dutch word staal means 'sample' and refers to the samples of cloth that were assessed. The inspectors used pliers to press the seals of their city (front) and guild (reverse) into penny-sized slugs of lead that were specially affixed to record the results of the inspection. There were four grades of quality, the highest was indicated by pressing four seals and the lowest by pressing only one. The men, who are appraising a length of Persian-style fabric against exemplars from a swatch book, are (from left to right): The guild commissioned this portrait and it hung in their guild hall, the nl:Staalhof (Amsterdam), until 1771.. 
Madonna del Parto. Author Name: Piero della Francesca. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . A Madonna del Parto ("Madonna of Parturition") is an iconic depiction of the Virgin Mary shown as pregnant, which was developed in Italy, mainly in Tuscany in the 14th century. Examples include works by Taddeo Gaddi, Bernardo Daddi and Nardo di Cione. The Madonna was portrayed standing, alone, often with a closed book on her belly, an allusion to the Incarnate Word. The works were associated with the devotions of pregnant women, praying for a safe delivery. Sometimes, as with a statue by Sansovino in the Basilica of Sant'Agostino in Rome, the depiction is of a Virgin and Child, but known as a Madonna del Parto because it was especially associated with devotions over pregnancy. Here the Virgin wears the Girdle of Thomas, a belt of knotted cloth cord that was a relic held in Prato Cathedral,. A Madonna del Parto ("Madonna of Parturition") is an iconic depiction of the Virgin Mary shown as pregnant, which was developed in Italy, mainly in Tuscany in the 14th century. Examples include works by Taddeo Gaddi, Bernardo Daddi and Nardo di Cione. The Madonna was portrayed standing, alone, often with a closed book on her belly, an allusion to the Incarnate Word. The works were associated with the devotions of pregnant women, praying for a safe delivery. Sometimes, as with a statue by Sansovino in the Basilica of Sant'Agostino in Rome, the depiction is of a Virgin and Child, but known as a Madonna del Parto because it was especially associated with devotions over pregnancy. Here the Virgin wears the Girdle of Thomas, a belt of knotted cloth cord that was a relic held in Prato Cathedral, which many depictions wear.. 
Catalan peasant with guitar. Author Name: Joan Miró. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . Head of a Catalan Peasant is an emblematic sequence of oil paintings and pencil made by Joan Miró between 1924 and 1925. Miró began this series the same year that André Breton published his Manifesto of Surrealism. The series was made partly in Paris. For Joan Miró "a peasant" symbolized rural knowledge, and also reflected his Catalan identity.The Fundació Joan Miró of Barcelona keeps several preparatory drawings for this series.. Head of a Catalan Peasant is an emblematic sequence of oil paintings and pencil made by Joan Miró between 1924 and 1925. Miró began this series the same year that André Breton published his Manifesto of Surrealism. The series was made partly in Paris. For Joan Miró "a peasant" symbolized rural knowledge, and also reflected his Catalan identity. The Fundació Joan Miró of Barcelona keeps several preparatory drawings for this series. The work demonstrates that Miró had ties with his homeland throughout his career. Joan Miró created this series in response to the prohibition of the Catalan language by Miguel Primo de Rivera. He was also influenced by the rural environment of Baix Camp. In this series he further develops the language started in works such as Catalan Landscape (The Hunter). The sequence followed by Miró has been interpreted several times as a progressive simplification of the same scene. Christopher Green, in turn, says that this is not exactly a linear trend toward simplification, but rather a dilemma, an internal discussion between the artist which creates the filled pictorial space.[citation needed]. 
Murphy Memorial Drinking Fountain. Author Name: Richards, Myra Reynolds. . . The Murphy Memorial Drinking Fountain is located in Delphi, Indiana on the southwest corner of the Carroll County Courthouse at Main and Market Streets and owned by the City of Delphi. The fountain was created in 1918 by Indianapolis-based Blakley Granite, Marble and Tile Company in collaboration with the artist Myra Reynolds Richards. Blakley created the architectural elements and Richards created the figural sculpture of the young girl located in the center. Originally there were two drinking fountains contained within the granite chalices on either side while the sculpture had a minor feature that may have bubbled water out of the chalice that the child holds with her right hand.. The Murphy Memorial Drinking Fountain is located in Delphi, Indiana on the southwest corner of the Carroll County Courthouse at Main and Market Streets and owned by the City of Delphi. The fountain was created in 1918 by Indianapolis-based Blakley Granite, Marble and Tile Company in collaboration with the artist Myra Reynolds Richards. Blakley created the architectural elements and Richards created the figural sculpture of the young girl located in the center. Originally there were two drinking fountains contained within the granite chalices on either side while the sculpture had a minor feature that may have bubbled water out of the chalice that the child holds with her right hand.. 
Six Number Two. Author Name: Kenneth Snelson. . . Six Number Two is a stainless steel sculpture by Kenneth Snelson.It is located at the Annmarie Sculpture Garden, Solomons, Maryland, on loan from the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.. Six Number Two is a stainless steel sculpture by Kenneth Snelson. It is located at the Annmarie Sculpture Garden, Solomons, Maryland, on loan from the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.. 
Self-Portrait. Author Name: Andy Warhol. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Self-Portrait is a 1986 work by the American artist Andy Warhol. The portrait is in a camouflage-patterned foreground with a black background.. Self-Portrait is a 1986 work by the American artist Andy Warhol. The portrait is in a camouflage-patterned foreground with a black background.. 
As I Opened Fire. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . As I Opened Fire (sometimes As I Opened Fire...) is a 1964 oil and magna on canvas painting by Roy Lichtenstein. The work is hosted at the Stedelijk Museum in Amsterdam. The source of the subject matter is Jerry Grandenetti's panels from "Wingmate of Doom," in All American Men of War, no. 90 (March–April 1962), DC Comics.. As I Opened Fire (sometimes As I Opened Fire...) is a 1964 oil and magna on canvas painting by Roy Lichtenstein. The work is hosted at the Stedelijk Museum in Amsterdam. The source of the subject matter is Jerry Grandenetti's panels from "Wingmate of Doom," in All American Men of War, no. 90 (March–April 1962), DC Comics.. 
Landscape with Psyche Outside the Palace of Cupid. Author Name: Claude Lorrain. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Landscape with Psyche Outside the Palace of Cupid, or The Enchanted Castle, 1664, is a painting, oil on canvas, by Claude Lorrain in the National Gallery, London. It was commissioned by Lorenzo Onofrio Colonna, a Roman aristocrat. Its subject is taken from The Golden Ass (IV-VI), by Apuleius – the love story of Psyche the soul, and Cupid the god of love. It is not clear if Psyche sits in front of Cupid's castle before she meets him, or after he has abandoned her.. Landscape with Psyche Outside the Palace of Cupid, or The Enchanted Castle, 1664, is a painting, oil on canvas, by Claude Lorrain in the National Gallery, London. It was commissioned by Lorenzo Onofrio Colonna, a Roman aristocrat. Its subject is taken from The Golden Ass (IV-VI), by Apuleius – the love story of Psyche the soul, and Cupid the god of love. It is not clear if Psyche sits in front of Cupid's castle before she meets him, or after he has abandoned her. It is sometimes thought – it is disputed – to have inspired the lines – Charm'd magic casements, opening on the foam/Of perilous seas, in faery lands forlorn , – in John Keats's Ode to a Nightingale. Keats was fascinated by the picture.. 
An Experiment on a Bird in the Air Pump. Author Name: Joseph Wright. . . An Experiment on a Bird in the Air Pump is a 1768 oil-on-canvas painting by Joseph Wright of Derby, one of a number of candlelit scenes that Wright painted during the 1760s. The painting departed from convention of the time by depicting a scientific subject in the reverential manner formerly reserved for scenes of historical or religious significance. Wright was intimately involved in depicting the Industrial Revolution and the scientific advances of the Enlightenment, but while his paintings were recognised as something out of the ordinary by his contemporaries, his provincial status and choice of subjects meant the style was never widely imitated. The picture has been owned by the National Gallery, London since 1863 and is still regarded as a masterpiece of British art. In June 2015 it w. An Experiment on a Bird in the Air Pump is a 1768 oil-on-canvas painting by Joseph Wright of Derby, one of a number of candlelit scenes that Wright painted during the 1760s. The painting departed from convention of the time by depicting a scientific subject in the reverential manner formerly reserved for scenes of historical or religious significance. Wright was intimately involved in depicting the Industrial Revolution and the scientific advances of the Enlightenment, but while his paintings were recognised as something out of the ordinary by his contemporaries, his provincial status and choice of subjects meant the style was never widely imitated. The picture has been owned by the National Gallery, London since 1863 and is still regarded as a masterpiece of British art. In June 2015 it was on loan to Tate Britain. The painting depicts a natural philosopher, a forerunner of the modern scientist, recreating one of Robert Boyle's air pump experiments, in which a bird is deprived of air, before a varied group of onlookers. The group exhibits a variety of reactions, but for most of the audience scientific curiosity overcomes concern for the bird. The central figure looks out of the picture as if inviting the viewer's participation in the outcome.. 
Matin à Villeneuve. Author Name: Biva, Henri. . Author Movement: Realism, Naturalism, Luminism. . Matin à Villeneuve, also known as Villeneuve-l'Etang, le matin and From Waters Edge, is a painting created circa 1905 in the Realist tradition with a strong Naturalist component by the French artist Henri Biva (1848–1929). This work was photographed and reproduced as a black and white postcard published for the occasion of the Salon of 1906 in Paris.. Matin à Villeneuve, also known as Villeneuve-l'Etang, le matin and From Waters Edge, is a painting created circa 1905 in the Realist tradition with a strong Naturalist component by the French artist Henri Biva (1848–1929). This work was photographed and reproduced as a black and white postcard published for the occasion of the Salon of 1906 in Paris.. 
R. D. Whitehead Monument. Author Name: Asbjoernsen, Sigvald. . . The R. D. Whitehead Monument is a public artwork by Norwegian born American artist Sigvald Asbjornsen located on the south side of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States. The artwork consists of a bronze-relief plaque depicting a dog and horse, set on a granite pillar, which is in turn part of a fountain.. The R. D. Whitehead Monument is a public artwork by Norwegian born American artist Sigvald Asbjornsen located on the south side of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States. The artwork consists of a bronze-relief plaque depicting a dog and horse, set on a granite pillar, which is in turn part of a fountain.. 
La Zingarella. Author Name: Cordier, Nicolas. . . La Zingarella or Gypsy Girl is a 140 centimetres (55 in) tall statue of Diana commissioned by Scipione Borghese and executed by Nicolas Cordier. It was made with bronze, and white and gray marble. It is on display in Room X in the Galleria Borghese in Rome, Italy.. La Zingarella or Gypsy Girl is a 140 centimetres (55 in) tall statue of Diana commissioned by Scipione Borghese and executed by Nicolas Cordier. It was made with bronze, and white and gray marble. It is on display in Room X in the Galleria Borghese in Rome, Italy.. 
Coronation of the Virgin. Author Name: Blessed John of Fiesole, O.P.. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Coronation of the Virgin is a painting of the Coronation of the Virgin by the Italian early Renaissance painter Fra Angelico, executed around 1432. It is now in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence. The artist executed another Coronation of the Virgin (c. 1434-1435), now in the Louvre in Paris.. The Coronation of the Virgin is a painting of the Coronation of the Virgin by the Italian early Renaissance painter Fra Angelico, executed around 1432. It is now in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence. The artist executed another Coronation of the Virgin (c. 1434-1435), now in the Louvre in Paris.. 
Look Mickey. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Look Mickey (also known as Look Mickey!) is a 1961 oil on canvas painting by Roy Lichtenstein. Widely regarded as the bridge between his abstract expressionism and pop art works, it is notable for its ironic humor and aesthetic value as well as being the first example of the artist's employment of Ben-Day dots, speech balloons and comic imagery as a source for a painting. The painting was bequeathed to the Washington, D.C., National Gallery of Art upon Lichtenstein's death.. Look Mickey (also known as Look Mickey!) is a 1961 oil on canvas painting by Roy Lichtenstein. Widely regarded as the bridge between his abstract expressionism and pop art works, it is notable for its ironic humor and aesthetic value as well as being the first example of the artist's employment of Ben-Day dots, speech balloons and comic imagery as a source for a painting. The painting was bequeathed to the Washington, D.C., National Gallery of Art upon Lichtenstein's death. Building on his late 1950s drawings of comic strips characters, Look Mickey marks Lichtenstein's first full employment of painterly techniques to reproduce almost faithful representations of pop culture and so satirize and comment upon the then developing process of mass production of visual imagery. In this, Lichtenstein pioneered a motif that became influential not only in 1960s pop art but continuing to the work of artists today. Lichtenstein borrows from a Donald Duck illustrated story book, showing Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck during a fishing mishap. However, he makes significant alterations to the original source, including modifying the color scheme and perspective, while seeming to make statements about himself. The work dates from Lichtenstein's first solo exhibition, and is regarded by art critics as revolutionary both as a progression of pop art and as a work of modern art in general. It was later reproduced in his 1973 painting, Artist's Studio—Look Mickey, which shows the painting hanging prominently on a facing wall of Lichtenstein's studio.. 
Points of View. Author Name: Surls, James. . . Points of View is an outdoor 1991 sculpture by James Surls, installed at Market Square Park in Houston, Texas, in the United States. The abstract sculpture is made of treated pine and painted steel, and measures 25 feet (7.6 m) x 8 feet (2.4 m) x 4 feet (1.2 m). It is mounted on a concrete base that measures 3 inches (7.6 cm) x 54 inches (140 cm). The work was dedicated in 1992, following Market Square Park's renovation during 1991–1992.. Points of View is an outdoor 1991 sculpture by James Surls, installed at Market Square Park in Houston, Texas, in the United States. The abstract sculpture is made of treated pine and painted steel, and measures 25 feet (7.6 m) x 8 feet (2.4 m) x 4 feet (1.2 m). It is mounted on a concrete base that measures 3 inches (7.6 cm) x 54 inches (140 cm). The work was dedicated in 1992, following Market Square Park's renovation during 1991–1992.. 
Happy Tears. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Happy Tears is a 1964 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It formerly held the record for highest auction price for a Lichtenstein painting.. Happy Tears is a 1964 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It formerly held the record for highest auction price for a Lichtenstein painting.. 
The Misanthrope. Author Name: Pieter Bruegel the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_and_Flemish_Renaissance_painting. . The Misanthrope is a tempera painting on canvas by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, created during 1568. It currently is held and exhibited at the National Museum of Capodimonte in Naples, Italy.. The Misanthrope is a tempera painting on canvas by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, created during 1568. It currently is held and exhibited at the National Museum of Capodimonte in Naples, Italy.. 
The Visitors. Author Name: Ragnar Kjartansson. . . The Visitors is a 2012 installation and video art piece created by Ragnar Kjartansson. Kjartansson named the piece for The Visitors, the final album by the Swedish pop band ABBA. The piece was commissioned by the Migros Museum in Zurich, and was one of the museum's inaugural exhibits. The premiere of the piece marked Kjartansson's first solo show in Switzerland.. The Visitors is a 2012 installation and video art piece created by Ragnar Kjartansson. Kjartansson named the piece for The Visitors, the final album by the Swedish pop band ABBA. The piece was commissioned by the Migros Museum in Zurich, and was one of the museum's inaugural exhibits. The premiere of the piece marked Kjartansson's first solo show in Switzerland.. 
St. Mark Enthroned. Author Name: Titian. . . St. Mark Enthroned is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Titian, executed in 1510 or 1511, and housed in the church of Santa Maria della Salute in Venice, Italy.. St. Mark Enthroned is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Titian, executed in 1510 or 1511, and housed in the church of Santa Maria della Salute in Venice, Italy.. 
The Grand Canal in Venice from Palazzo Flangini to Campo San Marcuola. Author Name: Canaletto. . . The Grand Canal in Venice from Palazzo Flangini to Campo San Marcuola is a painting by Canaletto in the J. Paul Getty Museum. Painted around 1738, it may have been commissioned by the English merchant and art collector Joseph Smith (1682–1770).. The Grand Canal in Venice from Palazzo Flangini to Campo San Marcuola is a painting by Canaletto in the J. Paul Getty Museum. Painted around 1738, it may have been commissioned by the English merchant and art collector Joseph Smith (1682–1770).. 
Madonna and Child with Six Saints. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Madonna and Child with Six Saints, also known as Sant'Ambrogio Altarpiece, is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli, finished around 1470. It is housed in the Galleria degli Uffizi, in Florence.It portrays the Virgin enthroned with the saints Mary Magdalene, John the Baptist, Francis, Catherine of Alexandria and, kneeling, Cosmas and Damian (patrons of the House of Medici). It is in fact most likely that the latter are portraits of Medici members. Lorenzo il Magnifico and his brother Giuliano have been considered.. The Madonna and Child with Six Saints, also known as Sant'Ambrogio Altarpiece, is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli, finished around 1470. It is housed in the Galleria degli Uffizi, in Florence. It portrays the Virgin enthroned with the saints Mary Magdalene, John the Baptist, Francis, Catherine of Alexandria and, kneeling, Cosmas and Damian (patrons of the House of Medici). It is in fact most likely that the latter are portraits of Medici members. Lorenzo il Magnifico and his brother Giuliano have been considered.. 
Shirley Temple,. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Shirley Temple, The Youngest, Most Sacred Monster of the Cinema in Her Time (or Shirley Temple, The Youngest, Most Sacred Monster of Contemporary Cinema), also known as the Barcelona Sphinx is a 1939 artwork in gouache, pastel and collage on cardboard, by surrealist painter Salvador Dalí. It measures 75 cm x 100 cm (29.5 inches x 39.5 inches). It is housed in the Netherlands, at Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen, Rotterdam's principal art gallery.. Shirley Temple, The Youngest, Most Sacred Monster of the Cinema in Her Time (or Shirley Temple, The Youngest, Most Sacred Monster of Contemporary Cinema), also known as the Barcelona Sphinx is a 1939 artwork in gouache, pastel and collage on cardboard, by surrealist painter Salvador Dalí. It measures 75 cm x 100 cm (29.5 inches x 39.5 inches). It is housed in the Netherlands, at Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen, Rotterdam's principal art gallery. The painting depicts the child star Shirley Temple as a sphinx. Shirley Temple's head, taken from a newspaper photograph, is superimposed on the body of a red lioness with breasts and white claws. On top of the head is a vampire bat. Surrounding the sphinx are a human skull and other bones, suggesting her latest kill. At the bottom of the painting is a trompe-l'œil label that reads: "Shirley!. at last in Technicolor." The painting has been described as a satire on the sexualization of child stars by Hollywood. The painting was first shown at an exhibition held at the Julien Levy Gallery, New York, from March 21 to April 18, 1939 (although the exhibition catalogue does not mention the painting, an article in the New York Times mentions its presence). It has also been exhibited in 1983 at the Palau Reial de Pedralbes in Barcelona, in 1985 at the Palais des Beaux Arts in Charleroi, and again in Barcelona in 2004, at the CaixaForum. From June 1 to September 9, 2007 it was one of around 100 Dalí works on display at the Tate Modern in London as part of the "Dalí And Film" exhibition.. 
King at Rest. Author Name: Ghiglieri, Lorenzo. . . King at Rest is a public artwork by American artist Lorenzo Ghiglieri (born 1931). It is located near the northwest entrance to the Indiana Convention Center, which is in downtown Indianapolis, Indiana, and is owned by the Indiana Convention Center & Lucas Oil Stadium. The realistic bronze sculpture of a lounging lion was purchased in 2001 by the Center.. King at Rest is a public artwork by American artist Lorenzo Ghiglieri (born 1931). It is located near the northwest entrance to the Indiana Convention Center, which is in downtown Indianapolis, Indiana, and is owned by the Indiana Convention Center & Lucas Oil Stadium. The realistic bronze sculpture of a lounging lion was purchased in 2001 by the Center.. 
Conversations with Magic Stones. Author Name: Dame Barbara Hepworth. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_art. . Conversations with Magic Stones (Magic Stone Three) is a public art work by English artist Barbara Hepworth located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture is an abstract, modified cube form made of bronze; it is installed on the lawn.. Conversations with Magic Stones (Magic Stone Three) is a public art work by English artist Barbara Hepworth located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture is an abstract, modified cube form made of bronze; it is installed on the lawn.. 
Self-Portrait, 1660. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Self-Portrait is a 1660 oil on canvas painting of himself by the Dutch artist Rembrandt. Painted when the artist was fifty-four, it has been noted as a work in which may be seen "the wrinkled brow and the worried expression the troubled condition of his mind". Part of the Benjamin Altman Collection, it has been in the Metropolitan Museum of Art since 1913.. Self-Portrait is a 1660 oil on canvas painting of himself by the Dutch artist Rembrandt. Painted when the artist was fifty-four, it has been noted as a work in which may be seen "the wrinkled brow and the worried expression the troubled condition of his mind". Part of the Benjamin Altman Collection, it has been in the Metropolitan Museum of Art since 1913.. 
Galacidalacidesoxyribonucleicacid. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Galacidalacidesoxyribonucleicacid (also known as Homage to Crick and Watson (Discoverers of DNA)) is a 1963 painting by Salvador Dalí. The painting's title is a portmanteau of the name of Dalí's wife, Gala Dalí, and Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA). It is a tribute to Francis Crick and James D. Watson, who determined the double helical structure of DNA in 1953.The painting is in the collection of the Salvador Dalí Museum in St. Petersburg, Florida.. Galacidalacidesoxyribonucleicacid (also known as Homage to Crick and Watson (Discoverers of DNA)) is a 1963 painting by Salvador Dalí. The painting's title is a portmanteau of the name of Dalí's wife, Gala Dalí, and Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA). It is a tribute to Francis Crick and James D. Watson, who determined the double helical structure of DNA in 1953. The painting is in the collection of the Salvador Dalí Museum in St. Petersburg, Florida.. 
The Wounded Philoctetes. Author Name: Nicolai Abraham Abildgaard. . . The Wounded Philoctetes is a painting by the Danish painter, N. A. Abildgaard. It was painted in 1775.Having received a five year scholarship from the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts, Abildgaard stayed in Rome where he painted his interpretation of the hero Philoctetes who was wounded by a snake and left behind on a Greek island by his brothers in arms during the Trojan War.. The Wounded Philoctetes is a painting by the Danish painter, N. A. Abildgaard. It was painted in 1775. Having received a five year scholarship from the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts, Abildgaard stayed in Rome where he painted his interpretation of the hero Philoctetes who was wounded by a snake and left behind on a Greek island by his brothers in arms during the Trojan War.. 
Von diesem wissen Männer nichts. Author Name: Max Ernst. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dada. . Of This Men Shall Know Nothing (German: Von diesem wissen Männer nichts) is oil on canvas painting by a German painter, sculptor, graphic artist, and poet Max Ernst. The painting was completed in 1923 in Paris, France. It is created on Surrealism style by use of symbolic painting genre during First French period. The painting measure 81 by 64 centimeters and is now housed at Tate Gallery, London.. Of This Men Shall Know Nothing (German: Von diesem wissen Männer nichts) is oil on canvas painting by a German painter, sculptor, graphic artist, and poet Max Ernst. The painting was completed in 1923 in Paris, France. It is created on Surrealism style by use of symbolic painting genre during First French period. The painting measure 81 by 64 centimeters and is now housed at Tate Gallery, London.. 
Alone in the World. Author Name: William-Adolphe Bouguereau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Alone in the World (French: Seule au Monde) is a painting created by nineteenth century French artist William-Adolphe Bouguereau. Although the exact year of creation is unknown, Theo van Gogh acquired it in 1867 so it may be placed in the early part of Bouguereau's career.. Alone in the World (French: Seule au Monde) is a painting created by nineteenth century French artist William-Adolphe Bouguereau. Although the exact year of creation is unknown, Theo van Gogh acquired it in 1867 so it may be placed in the early part of Bouguereau's career. The painting depicts a peasant girl holding a violin and standing on a bridge over the Seine in Paris. She is looking to her left with a melancholy expression. The cathedral of Notre Dame can be seen in the background, as well as a bridge which appears to be the Pont Royal. This indicates that the girl is standing on the Pont de Solférino.. 
Annunciation. Author Name: Bernardino Pinturicchio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Madonna with Writing Child and Bishop is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Pinturicchio, painted around 1495 and housed in the Museu de Belles Arts of Valencia, Spain.The work was painted in Rome, when Pinturicchio was the favorite painter of Pope Alexander VI. The pope's cousin and treasure, Francisco Borgia, commissioned him a work to send to the family's chapel in the Collegiate of Xàtiva, in Spain, perhaps to celebrated his appointment as bishop of Teano (1495). The painting was considered for long as the work of the artist's collaborators, due to the presence of 19th century repainting and yellowing: however, later restoration showed the delicate quality of the work and the sumptuousness of the style, typical of Pinturicchio.. The Madonna with Writing Child and Bishop is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Pinturicchio, painted around 1495 and housed in the Museu de Belles Arts of Valencia, Spain. The work was painted in Rome, when Pinturicchio was the favorite painter of Pope Alexander VI. The pope's cousin and treasure, Francisco Borgia, commissioned him a work to send to the family's chapel in the Collegiate of Xàtiva, in Spain, perhaps to celebrated his appointment as bishop of Teano (1495). The painting was considered for long as the work of the artist's collaborators, due to the presence of 19th century repainting and yellowing: however, later restoration showed the delicate quality of the work and the sumptuousness of the style, typical of Pinturicchio. The painting is derived from the Madonna with Writing Child (c. 1494-1498), which also shows the child in philosoper's garments standing on a stool (with the Borgia coat of arms) writing on a book which the Virgin is giving to him. This work adds the portrait of the commissioner, painted in profile, kneeling on the right, a position already used by Pinturicchio in the Madonna of the Peace (c. 1490). Jesus wears a dalmatic and a pallium, perhaps inspired by local late Antique and medieval mosaics, different from the thin veils which were typical of the contemporary Umbrian and Tuscan school. The use of an Gothic golden background and the flowers were adaptations to the taste of the commissioner. The small birds are symbols of the Passion of Christ.. 
Stuck Red / Stuck Blue. Author Name: James Turrell. . . Stuck Red and Stuck Blue are a pair of art installations produced by the American artist James Turrell. The pieces were created in 1970, and have formed part of several exhibitions of contemporary art in museums around the world, most recently in the Museum of Contemporary Art in San Diego, United States. On each occasion, the pair have been displayed together as a combined installation.. Stuck Red and Stuck Blue are a pair of art installations produced by the American artist James Turrell. The pieces were created in 1970, and have formed part of several exhibitions of contemporary art in museums around the world, most recently in the Museum of Contemporary Art in San Diego, United States. On each occasion, the pair have been displayed together as a combined installation.. 
Saint Apollonia. Author Name: Francisco Zurbarán. . Author Movement: Caravaggisti. . Saint Apollonia is a 1636 oil-on-canvas painted by the Spanish artist Francisco de Zurbarán. It is currently held and exhibited at the Louvre in Paris.. Saint Apollonia is a 1636 oil-on-canvas painted by the Spanish artist Francisco de Zurbarán. It is currently held and exhibited at the Louvre in Paris.. 
Jet Pilot. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Jet Pilot is a 1962 pop art work done in graphite pencil by Roy Lichtenstein. Like many of Lichtenstein's works from this time period, it was inspired by a comic book image, but he made notable modifications of the source in his work.. Jet Pilot is a 1962 pop art work done in graphite pencil by Roy Lichtenstein. Like many of Lichtenstein's works from this time period, it was inspired by a comic book image, but he made notable modifications of the source in his work.. 
Madonna delle Arpie. Author Name: Andrea del Sarto. . Author Movement: Mannerism. . Madonna of the Harpies (Italian: Madonna delle Arpie) is a 1517 painting by Andrea del Sarto, considered his major contribution to High Renaissance art.It is a depiction of the Virgin Mary and child on a pedestal, flanked by angels and two saints (Saint Bonaventure or Francis and John the Evangelist). Originally completed in 1517 for the convent of San Francesco dei Macci, the altarpiece now resides in the Uffizi. The figures have a Leonardo-like aura, with a pyramid shaped composition.. Madonna of the Harpies (Italian: Madonna delle Arpie) is a 1517 painting by Andrea del Sarto, considered his major contribution to High Renaissance art. It is a depiction of the Virgin Mary and child on a pedestal, flanked by angels and two saints (Saint Bonaventure or Francis and John the Evangelist). Originally completed in 1517 for the convent of San Francesco dei Macci, the altarpiece now resides in the Uffizi. The figures have a Leonardo-like aura, with a pyramid shaped composition. The main character in the Kürk Mantolu Madonna ("Madonna With A Fur Coat"), a novel written by Turkish writer Sabahattin Ali, is a depiction of the Virgin Mary in Madonna of the Harpies.. 
Dinos of the Gorgon Painter. Author Name: Gorgon Painter. . . The Dinos of the Gorgon Painter (French: Dinos du Peintre de la Gorgone) is an important example of ancient Greek pottery, produced at Athens around 580 BC. It entered the Louvre's collection in 1861, with the purchase of Giampietro Campana's collection (Inv. E 874).This masterpiece, which is decorated with gorgons, is the source of the name the anonymous painter who decorated it and is therefore known as the Gorgon Painter.. The Dinos of the Gorgon Painter (French: Dinos du Peintre de la Gorgone) is an important example of ancient Greek pottery, produced at Athens around 580 BC. It entered the Louvre's collection in 1861, with the purchase of Giampietro Campana's collection (Inv. E 874). This masterpiece, which is decorated with gorgons, is the source of the name the anonymous painter who decorated it and is therefore known as the Gorgon Painter.. 
Still Life with Teapot. Author Name: Paul Cézanne. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Still Life with Teapot is a still-life oil painting dating between 1902-06, by the French artist Paul Cézanne. The subject of the painting is a table draped loosely with a patterned cloth on which lie fruit, crockery and a knife. The painting was acquired by the National Museum Wales in 1952 and is on display at the National Museum Cardiff.. Still Life with Teapot is a still-life oil painting dating between 1902-06, by the French artist Paul Cézanne. The subject of the painting is a table draped loosely with a patterned cloth on which lie fruit, crockery and a knife. The painting was acquired by the National Museum Wales in 1952 and is on display at the National Museum Cardiff.. 
Christ Driving the Money Changers from the Temple. Author Name: El Greco. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . Christ Driving the Money Changers from the Temple is a 1571 Christian art painting by El Greco, now in the Minneapolis Institute of Art. It depicts the Cleansing of the Temple, an event in the Life of Christ.There exist three other copies of the painting and also a faithful reproduction in the National Gallery in London, which has recently been considered as authentic by scholars in the field of visual arts. Two versions and that other on loan from Madrid are titled Purification of the Temple. The one at the National Gallery in Washington is called Christ Cleansing the Temple.. Christ Driving the Money Changers from the Temple is a 1571 Christian art painting by El Greco, now in the Minneapolis Institute of Art. It depicts the Cleansing of the Temple, an event in the Life of Christ. There exist three other copies of the painting and also a faithful reproduction in the National Gallery in London, which has recently been considered as authentic by scholars in the field of visual arts. Two versions and that other on loan from Madrid are titled Purification of the Temple. The one at the National Gallery in Washington is called Christ Cleansing the Temple.. 
Portrait of Yevgeny Mravinsky. Author Name: Lev Alexandrovich Russov. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Portrait of Yevgeny Mravinsky is a painting by Russian portrait artist Lev Russov (1926–1987), whose work depicts the famous Russian and Soviet musician Yevgeny Aleksandrovich Mravinsky (1903—1988), principal conductor of the Leningrad Philharmonic Orchestra in 1938–1988 years.. Portrait of Yevgeny Mravinsky is a painting by Russian portrait artist Lev Russov (1926–1987), whose work depicts the famous Russian and Soviet musician Yevgeny Aleksandrovich Mravinsky (1903—1988), principal conductor of the Leningrad Philharmonic Orchestra in 1938–1988 years. The portrait was painted in Leningrad in 1957. Evgeny Mravinsky is shown at home, sitting in an armchair in a quiet position, immersed in thought. His appearance, details of clothing and interior design and hand positions convey him at the time of creation. The instruments of his profession are pushed into the background. Before us is primarily a contemporary, intellectual, man of an independent character, will and developed self-esteem. It is these qualities that Yevgeny Mravinsky wanted to convey onto Russov in this work. This helped not only his profession, but also their long-term friendly relationship linking the two artists. In the same year of 1957, the portrait had been exhibited for the first time at the Leningrad artists show in the Russian State Museum . The portrait won a special place in the vast iconography of Yevgeny Mravinsky. The Musician portrayed appears in the prime of his life and full of creative forces. In 2007 the «Portrait of Yevgeny Mravinsky» had been commented on and reproduced in the book «Unknown Socialist Realism. The Leningrad School» among 350 selected works by artists of the Leningrad School.. 
Portrait of Madame Récamier. Author Name: Jacques-Louis David. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . Portrait of Madame Récamier is an 1800 portrait of the Parisian socialite Juliette Récamier by Jacques-Louis David showing her in the height of Neoclassical fashion, reclining on an Directoire style sofa in a simple Empire line dress with almost bare arms, and short hair "à la Titus". He began it in May 1800 but may have left it unfinished when he learned that François Gérard had been commissioned before him to paint a portrait of the same model (Gerard's portrait was completed in 1802); on the other hand many David portraits have the same bare background. The pose of a reclining figure looking back over her shoulder was adopted in 1814 by Ingres for his Grande Odalisque. It is now in the Louvre.. Portrait of Madame Récamier is an 1800 portrait of the Parisian socialite Juliette Récamier by Jacques-Louis David showing her in the height of Neoclassical fashion, reclining on an Directoire style sofa in a simple Empire line dress with almost bare arms, and short hair "à la Titus". He began it in May 1800 but may have left it unfinished when he learned that François Gérard had been commissioned before him to paint a portrait of the same model (Gerard's portrait was completed in 1802); on the other hand many David portraits have the same bare background. The pose of a reclining figure looking back over her shoulder was adopted in 1814 by Ingres for his Grande Odalisque. It is now in the Louvre. In Creatures in an Alphabet, Djuna Barnes wrote of the subject as René Magritte also parodied David's painting in his own Perspective: Madame Récamier by David, showing a coffin reclining, now in the National Gallery of Canada.. 
Jackrabbit Homestead. Author Name: Kim Stringfellow. . . Jackrabbit Homestead is a multimedia project created by Kim Stringfellow. It consists of a book, downloadable audio tour and website. The project examines the legacy of the Small Tract Act of 1938 in the Morongo Basin. The project was made possible by a grant from the California Council for the Humanities. The project was featured in the Desert Sun on August 1, 2009.. Jackrabbit Homestead is a multimedia project created by Kim Stringfellow. It consists of a book, downloadable audio tour and website. The project examines the legacy of the Small Tract Act of 1938 in the Morongo Basin. The project was made possible by a grant from the California Council for the Humanities. The project was featured in the Desert Sun on August 1, 2009.. 
Insane Woman. Author Name: Théodore Géricault. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . Insane Woman is an 1822 oil on canvas painting by Théodore Géricault in a series of work Géricault did on the mentally ill. It is housed in the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Lyon, France.Mental aberration and irrational states of mind could not fail to interest artists against Enlightenment rationality. Géricault, like many of his contemporaries, examined the influence of mental states on the human face and shared the belief, common in his time, that a face more accurately revealed character, especially in madness and at the moment of death. He made many studies of the inmates in hospitals and institutions for the criminally insane, and he studied the heads of guillotine victims.. Insane Woman is an 1822 oil on canvas painting by Théodore Géricault in a series of work Géricault did on the mentally ill. It is housed in the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Lyon, France. Mental aberration and irrational states of mind could not fail to interest artists against Enlightenment rationality. Géricault, like many of his contemporaries, examined the influence of mental states on the human face and shared the belief, common in his time, that a face more accurately revealed character, especially in madness and at the moment of death. He made many studies of the inmates in hospitals and institutions for the criminally insane, and he studied the heads of guillotine victims. Géricault's Insane Woman, her mouth tense, her eyes red-rimmed with suffering, is one of several portraits he made of the mentally ill that have a peculiar hypnotic power. These portraits present the physical facts with astonishing authenticity, especially in contrast to earlier idealized commissioned portraiture.. 
The Lamentation over the Dead Christ. Author Name: Andrea Mantegna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Lamentation of Christ (also known as the Lamentation over the Dead Christ, or the Dead Christ and other variants) is a painting of about 1480 by the Italian Renaissance artist Andrea Mantegna. While the dating of the piece is debated, it was completed between 1475 and 1501, probably in the early 1480s. It portrays the body Christ supine on a marble slab. He is watched over by the Virgin Mary and Saint John weeping for his death.. The Lamentation of Christ (also known as the Lamentation over the Dead Christ, or the Dead Christ and other variants) is a painting of about 1480 by the Italian Renaissance artist Andrea Mantegna. While the dating of the piece is debated, it was completed between 1475 and 1501, probably in the early 1480s. It portrays the body Christ supine on a marble slab. He is watched over by the Virgin Mary and Saint John weeping for his death. The theme of the Lamentation of Christ is common in medieval and Renaissance art, although this treatment, dating back to a subject known as the Anointing of Christ is unusual for the period. Most Lamentations show much more contact between the mourners and the body. Rich contrasts of light and shadow abound, infused by a profound sense of pathos. The realism and tragedy of the scene are enhanced by the violent perspective, which foreshortens and dramatizes the recumbent figure, stressing the anatomical details: in particular, Christ's thorax. The holes in Christ's hands and feet, as well as the faces of the two mourners, are portrayed without any concession to idealism or rhetoric. The sharply drawn drapery which covers the corpse contributes to the dramatic effect. The composition places the central focus of the image on Christ's genitals - an emphasis often found in figures of Jesus, especially as an infant, in this period, which has been related to a theological emphasis on the Humanity of Jesus by Leo Steinberg and others. Mantegna presented both a harrowing study of a strongly foreshortened cadaver and an intensely poignant depiction of a biblical tragedy. This painting is one of many examples of the artist's mastery of perspective. At first glance, the painting seems to display an exact perspective. However, careful scrutiny reveals that Mantegna reduced the size of the figure's feet, which, as he must have known, would cover much of the body if properly represented. Mantegna probably made this painting for his personal funerary chapel. It was found by his sons in his studio after his death and sold off to pay debts. The painting is now in the Pinacoteca di Brera of Milan, Italy.. 
Portrait of Catherine Balebina. Author Name: Lev Alexandrovich Russov. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Portrait of Catherine Balebina is a painting by Russian portrait artist Lev Russov (1926–1987), which depicts his wife Catherine Balebina (Russian: Екатери′на Васи′льевна Бале′бина; 1933–2002).. Portrait of Catherine Balebina is a painting by Russian portrait artist Lev Russov (1926–1987), which depicts his wife Catherine Balebina (Russian: Екатери′на Васи′льевна Бале′бина; 1933–2002).. 
Electrum. Author Name: Eric Orr. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Geometric_abstraction. . Electrum, or Electrum (for Len Lye), is a 1998 sculpture by Eric Orr and Greg Leyh built around the world's largest tesla coil. The coil operates at power levels up to 130,000 watts, 3 million volts and stands 11.5 meters in height. The sculpture is currently installed in New Zealand at the residence of Alan Gibbs. The top, spherical electrode of the sculpture is large enough to hold a human. The piece was the subject of a 2000 documentary, Lightning Dreams, by Alberta Chu.. Electrum, or Electrum (for Len Lye), is a 1998 sculpture by Eric Orr and Greg Leyh built around the world's largest tesla coil. The coil operates at power levels up to 130,000 watts, 3 million volts and stands 11.5 meters in height. The sculpture is currently installed in New Zealand at the residence of Alan Gibbs. The top, spherical electrode of the sculpture is large enough to hold a human. The piece was the subject of a 2000 documentary, Lightning Dreams, by Alberta Chu.. 
Bull Rider and the Cody Night Rodeo. Author Name: Blake Neubert. . . Bull Rider and the Cody Nite Rodeo; created in 2007 is the title of an expressionist painting by American artist Blake Neubert, depicting a Cowboy riding a Bull in the nightly rodeo. In a review for The World & I Online Audrey Albright describes the piece as "Kandinsky-like," going on to note how Neubert "takes a step beyond impressionism and reaches expressionism with his Bull Rider at the Cody Night [sic] Rodeo . . . [Neubert's] use of color and line emphasizes the emotions and feel of riding a bull, making it possible for the viewer to imagine actually being on the bull.". Bull Rider and the Cody Nite Rodeo; created in 2007 is the title of an expressionist painting by American artist Blake Neubert, depicting a Cowboy riding a Bull in the nightly rodeo. In a review for The World & I Online Audrey Albright describes the piece as "Kandinsky-like," going on to note how Neubert "takes a step beyond impressionism and reaches expressionism with his Bull Rider at the Cody Night [sic] Rodeo . . . [Neubert's] use of color and line emphasizes the emotions and feel of riding a bull, making it possible for the viewer to imagine actually being on the bull.". 
Portrait of Madame Cézanne. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Portrait of Madame Cézanne (sometimes Portrait of Mrs. Cézanne) is a 1962 Pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It is a quotation of Erle Loran's diagram of a Cézanne painting of the same name. It was one of the works exhibited at Lichtenstein's first solo exhibition in Los Angeles. The work became controversial in that it led to a reconsideration of what constitutes art.. Portrait of Madame Cézanne (sometimes Portrait of Mrs. Cézanne) is a 1962 Pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It is a quotation of Erle Loran's diagram of a Cézanne painting of the same name. It was one of the works exhibited at Lichtenstein's first solo exhibition in Los Angeles. The work became controversial in that it led to a reconsideration of what constitutes art. Lichtenstein and Loran sparred in the press, and art critics were intrigued by the viewpoints of the two. Loran's view was that Lichtenstein had plagiarized his work, and at one point filed suit. Lichtenstein felt that he was making a statement with his painting on the ridiculous attempt by Loran to explain Cézanne by diagram. The press frequently used the word transformation when crediting Lichtenstein's work, but Lichtenstein attempted not to accept the association of his work with that word.. 
The Return of Spring. Author Name: William-Adolphe Bouguereau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Return of Spring (French: Le Printemps) is a painting by William-Adolphe Bouguereau created in 1886. It is among the more well-known of his works. It is currently in the collection of the Joslyn Art Museum in Omaha, Nebraska, and was acquired in 1951 as the gift of Francis T. B. Martin. The painting was brought to Omaha shortly after it was completed by George W. Lininger. Lininger was an art collector and private gallery owner who routinely opened his gallery to the public for no charge.. The Return of Spring (French: Le Printemps) is a painting by William-Adolphe Bouguereau created in 1886. It is among the more well-known of his works. It is currently in the collection of the Joslyn Art Museum in Omaha, Nebraska, and was acquired in 1951 as the gift of Francis T. B. Martin. The painting was brought to Omaha shortly after it was completed by George W. Lininger. Lininger was an art collector and private gallery owner who routinely opened his gallery to the public for no charge. The painting was physically attacked twice - in 1890 and in 1976. Both times, damages were minimal. The attackers were offended by the painting's overtly sensual nudity. A replica of the painting appeared in the ballroom scene at the Beaufort home in the 1993 film, The Age of Innocence (though the film takes place in the 1870s, years before the painting was created).. 
St. George and the Dragon. Author Name: Vittore Carpaccio. . . St. George and the Dragon is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Vittore Carpaccio. It is housed in the Scuola di San Giorgio degli Schiavoni of Venice, northern Italy.. St. George and the Dragon is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Vittore Carpaccio. It is housed in the Scuola di San Giorgio degli Schiavoni of Venice, northern Italy.. 
Mermaid. Author Name: Anne Marie Carl-Nielsen. . . Mermaid (Danish: Havfrue) is a bronze sculpture designed by the Danish sculptor Anne Marie Carl-Nielsen, depicting a mermaid. The original bronze cast from 1921 is on display in the Danish National Gallery while another cast was installed at Christians Brygge outside the Royal Danish Library in Copenhagen in 2009. The original plaster model is owned by the Carl Nielsen Museum and is on display in the Funen Art Museum in Odense. Carl-Nielsen depicts her mermaid in a more dramatic pose than that of Edvard Eriksen's far more famous and nine years older Little Mermaid at Copenhagen's Langelinie prommendade.. Mermaid (Danish: Havfrue) is a bronze sculpture designed by the Danish sculptor Anne Marie Carl-Nielsen, depicting a mermaid. The original bronze cast from 1921 is on display in the Danish National Gallery while another cast was installed at Christians Brygge outside the Royal Danish Library in Copenhagen in 2009. The original plaster model is owned by the Carl Nielsen Museum and is on display in the Funen Art Museum in Odense. Carl-Nielsen depicts her mermaid in a more dramatic pose than that of Edvard Eriksen's far more famous and nine years older Little Mermaid at Copenhagen's Langelinie prommendade.. 
Cristo della moneta. Author Name: Titian. . . The Tribute Money (Italian: Cristo della moneta - literally Christ of the coin) is a c. 1516 oil painting by Titian, now held at the Gemäldegalerie Alte Meister in Dresden. It is signed "Ticianus F.[ecit]", painted on the trim of the Pharisee's collar. It depicts Christ and a Pharisee at the moment in the Gospels (Matthew 22:15-22, Mark 12:13-17, Luke 20:20-26) when Christ is shown a coin and says "Render unto Caesar..." Giorgio Vasari thought the head of Christ the 'most stupendous and miraculous' thing painted by Titian and that all artists at the time believed it to be an insuperable achievement.. The Tribute Money (Italian: Cristo della moneta - literally Christ of the coin) is a c. 1516 oil painting by Titian, now held at the Gemäldegalerie Alte Meister in Dresden. It is signed "Ticianus F.[ecit]", painted on the trim of the Pharisee's collar. It depicts Christ and a Pharisee at the moment in the Gospels (Matthew 22:15-22, Mark 12:13-17, Luke 20:20-26) when Christ is shown a coin and says "Render unto Caesar..." Giorgio Vasari thought the head of Christ the 'most stupendous and miraculous' thing painted by Titian and that all artists at the time believed it to be an insuperable achievement.. 
The Crucifixion. Author Name: Andrea Mantegna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Crucifixion is a panel in the central part of the predella (see image below) of a large altar piece painted by Andrea Mantegna between 1457 and 1459 for the high altar of San Zeno, Verona (Italy). It was commissioned by Gregorio Correr, the abbot of that monastery.. The Crucifixion is a panel in the central part of the predella (see image below) of a large altar piece painted by Andrea Mantegna between 1457 and 1459 for the high altar of San Zeno, Verona (Italy). It was commissioned by Gregorio Correr, the abbot of that monastery.. 
Nine Spaces Nine Trees. Author Name: Robert Irwin. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Light_and_Space. . Nine Spaces Nine Trees (sometimes Nine Spaces, Nine Trees) is a 1982–1983 art installation by American artist Robert Irwin, located on the University of Washington campus in Seattle, Washington, in the United States. The installation was surveyed and deemed "well maintained" by the Smithsonian Institution's "Save Outdoor Sculpture!" program in 1995. It was recreated in 2007.. Nine Spaces Nine Trees (sometimes Nine Spaces, Nine Trees) is a 1982–1983 art installation by American artist Robert Irwin, located on the University of Washington campus in Seattle, Washington, in the United States. The installation was surveyed and deemed "well maintained" by the Smithsonian Institution's "Save Outdoor Sculpture!" program in 1995. It was recreated in 2007.. 
Torso of Venus and a Landscape. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Torso of Venus and a Landscape is a sketch by Post-Impressionist artist Vincent van Gogh. It now resides in the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam.This drawing was created while van Gogh was staying with his brother in Paris (in 1886-1888), a period during which they did not write any letters to each other. As a result, little is known about the artist during this period except for his still-life paintings and Agostina Segatori Sitting in the Café du Tambourin. In 1887, he sketched this drawing onto a piece of paper with black chalk and ink.. Torso of Venus and a Landscape is a sketch by Post-Impressionist artist Vincent van Gogh. It now resides in the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam. This drawing was created while van Gogh was staying with his brother in Paris (in 1886-1888), a period during which they did not write any letters to each other. As a result, little is known about the artist during this period except for his still-life paintings and Agostina Segatori Sitting in the Café du Tambourin. In 1887, he sketched this drawing onto a piece of paper with black chalk and ink. Van Gogh produced other earlier paintings of Torso of Venus during his stay in Paris, such as the Torso of Venus in 1886, which was exhibited at the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam. It also featured a realism aspect, and was drawn with similar media. It is possible that Torso of Venus and a Landscape was a rough draft.. 
Saint Agnes. Author Name: Stanzione, Massimo. . . Saint Agnes is a painting currently exhibited at the National Art Museum of Catalonia.. Saint Agnes is a painting currently exhibited at the National Art Museum of Catalonia.. 
Madonna della Scodella. Author Name: Antonio da Correggio. . Author Movement: Mannerism. . Madonna della Scodella is an oil painting on board of Antonio da Correggio (216,7 x 137,3 cm), dated from 1528 to about 1530 and preserved at the Galleria nazionale di Parma.see the italian article Madonna della Scodella. Madonna della Scodella is an oil painting on board of Antonio da Correggio (216,7 x 137,3 cm), dated from 1528 to about 1530 and preserved at the Galleria nazionale di Parma. see the italian article Madonna della Scodella. 
The Librarian. Author Name: Arcimboldo, Giuseppe. . . The Librarian is an oil on canvas painting by Giuseppe Arcimboldo in the collection of Skokloster Castle in Sweden. It is thought to be a portrait of Wolfgang Lazius, a humanist and historian who served Holy Roman Emperors of the House of Habsburg.Arcimboldo became official portraitist to Emperor Maximilian II in 1562. The Librarian is one of a series of paintings by Arcimboldo of members of Maximilian's entourage. Skokloster Castle dates the painting to 1562, though the painting is more often dated circa 1566.. The Librarian is an oil on canvas painting by Giuseppe Arcimboldo in the collection of Skokloster Castle in Sweden. It is thought to be a portrait of Wolfgang Lazius, a humanist and historian who served Holy Roman Emperors of the House of Habsburg. Arcimboldo became official portraitist to Emperor Maximilian II in 1562. The Librarian is one of a series of paintings by Arcimboldo of members of Maximilian's entourage. Skokloster Castle dates the painting to 1562, though the painting is more often dated circa 1566. Arcimboldo created a number of portraits of people by painting an assemblage of objects such as fruits and vegetables, flowers, or in this case, books; the objects typically had some connection to the person's life or depiction. Benno Geiger called it a "triumph of abstract art in the 16th century". In 1957, art historian Sven Alfons was the first to conclude that this was specifically a portrait of Lazius. The work has been interpreted as both a celebration and a satirical mocking of librarians and scholarship. K. C. Elhard suggests that it may be specifically a parody of "materialistic book collectors more interested in acquiring books than in reading them." Elhard notes that The Librarian has become "a fixture in the visual history of the library profession". However, the original title, if any, is unknown, and its current title first appears (in Swedish as "Bibliotekarien") in an early 20th-century inventory. The Librarian is one of two works by Arcimbolodo in the collection of Skokloster Castle. The painting was brought to Sweden following the looting of Prague Castle by the Swedish army during the 1648 Battle of Prague and was owned by General Hans Christoff von Königsmarck. There are three other extant versions of the painting whose attributions are uncertain. A scientific study published in 2011 concluded that The Librarian was a later copy of Arcimbolodo's original painting, whose whereabouts are unknown.. 
The Boyhood of Raleigh. Author Name: Sir John Everett Millais, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pre-Raphaelite_Brotherhood. . The Boyhood of Raleigh is a painting by John Everett Millais, which was exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1871. It came to epitomise the culture of heroic imperialism in late Victorian Britain and in British popular culture up to the mid-twentieth century[citation needed].The painting depicts the young, wide-eyed Sir Walter Raleigh and his brother sitting on the beach by the Devonshire coast. He is listening to a story of life on the seas, told by an experienced sailor who points out to the sea.. The Boyhood of Raleigh is a painting by John Everett Millais, which was exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1871. It came to epitomise the culture of heroic imperialism in late Victorian Britain and in British popular culture up to the mid-twentieth century[citation needed]. The painting depicts the young, wide-eyed Sir Walter Raleigh and his brother sitting on the beach by the Devonshire coast. He is listening to a story of life on the seas, told by an experienced sailor who points out to the sea.. 
Alan Turing. Author Name: Wayne Chabre. . . Alan Turing, sometimes spelled Allen Turing and also known as Allen Turing Gargoyle, is an outdoor 1988 hammered copper sheet sculpture of Alan Turing by Wayne Chabre, installed on the exterior of Willamette Hall on the University of Oregon campus in Eugene, Oregon, in the United States. The portrait face in high relief measures approximately 3 feet (0.91 m) x 1.5 feet (0.46 m) x 1.5 feet (0.46 m) and cost $2,500. Its condition was undetermined when the Smithsonian Institution surveyed the work as part of its "Save Outdoor Sculpture!" program in March 1993.. Alan Turing, sometimes spelled Allen Turing and also known as Allen Turing Gargoyle, is an outdoor 1988 hammered copper sheet sculpture of Alan Turing by Wayne Chabre, installed on the exterior of Willamette Hall on the University of Oregon campus in Eugene, Oregon, in the United States. The portrait face in high relief measures approximately 3 feet (0.91 m) x 1.5 feet (0.46 m) x 1.5 feet (0.46 m) and cost $2,500. Its condition was undetermined when the Smithsonian Institution surveyed the work as part of its "Save Outdoor Sculpture!" program in March 1993.. 
Two Tahitian Women. Author Name: Paul Gauguin. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Two Tahitian Women is an 1899 painting by Paul Gauguin. It depicts two topless women, one holding mango blossoms, on the Pacific Island of Tahiti. The painting is part of the permanent collection of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City and was donated to the museum by William Church Osborn in 1949.. Two Tahitian Women is an 1899 painting by Paul Gauguin. It depicts two topless women, one holding mango blossoms, on the Pacific Island of Tahiti. The painting is part of the permanent collection of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City and was donated to the museum by William Church Osborn in 1949. Although Tahiti is depicted as an innocent paradise, the two women in the painting confront the viewer in a way similar to that in Manet's Le déjeuner sur l'herbe (1863) or Olympia (1863), and follow an artistic tradition of comparing woman's breasts to flowers or fruit. The women in the painting also appear in two other works by Gauguin, Faa Iheihe (Tahitian Pastoral) (1898) and Rupe, Rupe (1899). The painting was attacked April 1, 2011, while on loan to the National Gallery of Art in Washington D.C. A woman named Susan Burns banged on the painting's plastic cover. Due to the protection of the plexiglass, the painting was not harmed. The woman was “immediately restrained and detained” by the museum’s security guards who charged her with destruction of property and attempted theft.. 
Head on a Green Sofa. Author Name: Lucian Freud. . . Head on a Green Sofa is an oil painting by Lucian Freud executed in 1960-61. It is a portrait of the late Lady Lambton, wife of Antony Lambton, Viscount Lambton, 6th Earl of Durham. It was sold at Sotheby's, London, 12 February 2014 by its then owner Edward Lambton, 7th Earl of Durham, for £2,994,500.. Head on a Green Sofa is an oil painting by Lucian Freud executed in 1960-61. It is a portrait of the late Lady Lambton, wife of Antony Lambton, Viscount Lambton, 6th Earl of Durham. It was sold at Sotheby's, London, 12 February 2014 by its then owner Edward Lambton, 7th Earl of Durham, for £2,994,500.. 
The Bacchanal of the Andrians. Author Name: Titian. . . The Bacchanal of the Andrians is an oil painting by Titian. It is signed ".[aciebat]" and is dated to 1523–1526.The painting is now held at the Museo del Prado in Madrid, but it was commissioned by Alfonso I d'Este for his Camerini d'alabastro ('chambers of alabaster') in Ferrara. The decorative programme included other major paintings celebrating Bacchus and Venus, the gods of wine and love.The Bacchanal of the Andrians has been admired by other artists including Rubens who copied it.. The Bacchanal of the Andrians is an oil painting by Titian. It is signed ".[aciebat]" and is dated to 1523–1526. The painting is now held at the Museo del Prado in Madrid, but it was commissioned by Alfonso I d'Este for his Camerini d'alabastro ('chambers of alabaster') in Ferrara. The decorative programme included other major paintings celebrating Bacchus and Venus, the gods of wine and love. The Bacchanal of the Andrians has been admired by other artists including Rubens who copied it.. 
Steel Maker. Study for painting "Blast Furnace Men". Author Name: Mikhail Pavlovich Trufanov. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The All-Union Art Exhibition (Moscow, 1957) devoted to the 40th anniversary of the October Revolution (Russian: Всесоюзная художественная выставка, посвящённая 40-летию Великой Октябрьской социалистической революции) was one of the largest art exhibitions in Soviet history. Exhibition took place in Manezh Exhibition Hall from November 5, 1957 to May, 1958.. The All-Union Art Exhibition (Moscow, 1957) devoted to the 40th anniversary of the October Revolution (Russian: Всесоюзная художественная выставка, посвящённая 40-летию Великой Октябрьской социалистической революции) was one of the largest art exhibitions in Soviet history. Exhibition took place in Manezh Exhibition Hall from November 5, 1957 to May, 1958.. 
Carnation, Lily, Lily, Rose. Author Name: John Singer Sargent. . . Carnation, Lily, Lily, Rose is an oil-on-canvas painting made by the Anglo-American painter John Singer Sargent in 1885-6.The painting depicts two small children dressed in white, lighting softly-glowing Paper lanterns with tapers as day turns to evening, in a garden strewn with pink roses, accents of yellow carnations and tall white lilies (possibly the Japanese mountain lily, Lilium auratum) behind.The painting is dominated by green foliage, with no horizon or other horizontal line to give the painting depth. The viewer seems to be simultaneously on a level with the children, but also looking down on them from above. The two subjects, the daughters of the illustrator Frederick Barnard - a friend of Sargent's, are Dolly and Polly Barnard; Dolly, left, was aged 11 and Polly, right, 7 years. Carnation, Lily, Lily, Rose is an oil-on-canvas painting made by the Anglo-American painter John Singer Sargent in 1885-6. The painting depicts two small children dressed in white, lighting softly-glowing Paper lanterns with tapers as day turns to evening, in a garden strewn with pink roses, accents of yellow carnations and tall white lilies (possibly the Japanese mountain lily, Lilium auratum) behind.The painting is dominated by green foliage, with no horizon or other horizontal line to give the painting depth. The viewer seems to be simultaneously on a level with the children, but also looking down on them from above. The two subjects, the daughters of the illustrator Frederick Barnard - a friend of Sargent's, are Dolly and Polly Barnard; Dolly, left, was aged 11 and Polly, right, 7 years, chosen for their blonde hair (replacing Sargent's original model, Millet's 5-year-old daughter, dark-haired Katherine).The title comes from the refrain of a popular song "Ye Shepherds Tell Me" (also known as The Wreath) by Joseph Mazzinghi, a pastoral glee for a trio of male voices, which mentions Flora wearing "A wreath around her head, around her head she wore, Carnation, lily, lily, rose". Sargent's painting can be read as a botanical allegory of flower-maidens, with subtle sexual overtones of lighting a lantern (slang in French for vagina), and the taper as a symbolic paintbrush (also used to hand-pollinate flowers) used to illuminate the paper of the lantern in the same way that a painter uses a paintbrush to create an image on a canvas. The work is set in an English garden at Farnham House in Broadway in the Cotswolds, south of Stratford-upon-Avon, where Sargent spent the summer of 1885 with painter Francis Davis Millet shortly after moving to England from Paris to escape the scandal caused by his 1884 painting Portrait of Madame X.Sargent took inspiration from the lanterns that he saw hanging among trees and lilies while boating on the River Thames at Pangbourne with American artist Edwin Austin Abbey in September 1885, during which trip Sargent had injured his head on an underwater object when diving into the water.Sargent wanted to capture the exact level of light at dusk so he painted the picture en plein air - out of doors, in the Impressionist manner.Every day from September to November 1885, he painted in the very few minutes when the light was perfect, giving the picture an overall purple tint of evening.The flowers in the garden died as summer turned to autumn, and they were replaced with artificial flowers.Sargent resumed painting the following summer at the Millet new home nearby in Broadway, and finally finished the painting by the end of October 1886. In the course of working, Sargent cut down the rectangular canvas, removing approximately 2 feet (61 cm) from the left side, to leave an approximately square shape. The work received a mixed reception at the Royal Academy summer exhibition in 1887, with some criticising his "Frenchified" style. However, there was also much praise, and Sir Frederic Leighton, President of the Royal Academy, encouraged the Tate Gallery to buy the painting later that year, using money from the Chantrey Bequest. It was the first of Sargent's works to be acquired by a public museum. The painting remains part of the collection of the Tate Gallery, and is displayed at Tate Britain.. 
Plain near Auvers. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Plain near Auvers (original title: Ebene bei Auvers) is an oil on canvas painting created in 1890, by the Dutch post-Impressionist painter Vincent van Gogh. It is on permanent display at the Neue Pinakothek in Munich, Germany. It was acquired in 1929 from the art market Kunsthandel.. Plain near Auvers (original title: Ebene bei Auvers) is an oil on canvas painting created in 1890, by the Dutch post-Impressionist painter Vincent van Gogh. It is on permanent display at the Neue Pinakothek in Munich, Germany. It was acquired in 1929 from the art market Kunsthandel.. 
Jupiter and Antiope. Author Name: Anthony van Dyck. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Jupiter and Antiope is a series of two similar oil-on-canvas paintings by the late Baroque Flemish painter Anthony van Dyck. One painting is in the collection of the Museum of Fine Arts, Ghent; the other in the Wallraf-Richartz Museum, Cologne.. Jupiter and Antiope is a series of two similar oil-on-canvas paintings by the late Baroque Flemish painter Anthony van Dyck. One painting is in the collection of the Museum of Fine Arts, Ghent; the other in the Wallraf-Richartz Museum, Cologne.. 
Madonna with Child with Young John the Baptist. Author Name: Lucas Cranach the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/German_Renaissance. . Madonna with Child with Young John the Baptist is a painting by the German Renaissance painter Lucas Cranach the Elder, dating from 1514. It is housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence.The work was originally in the Florence Charterhouse, outside the city, from where it was stolen in 1973. It was recovered in 2001.The bright colors, the volume of the figures and the composition are typical of Italian Renaissance painting, which was well known by Cranach.. Madonna with Child with Young John the Baptist is a painting by the German Renaissance painter Lucas Cranach the Elder, dating from 1514. It is housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence. The work was originally in the Florence Charterhouse, outside the city, from where it was stolen in 1973. It was recovered in 2001. It is a typical Madonna with Child inspired by Raphael. The Virgin is shown above a rocky background with a fair sky, while holding the Child and showing it to the observer. Similarly to Raphael's Terranuova Madonna, the Child and the young John the Baptist interact through their gestures and glances. The bright colors, the volume of the figures and the composition are typical of Italian Renaissance painting, which was well known by Cranach.. 
Eden II. Author Name: Makipaa, Tea. . . Eden II is a public artwork by the Finnish artist Tea Mäkipää, located on the grounds of the Indianapolis Museum of Art in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. It is a mixed-media installation, consisting of a derelict ship on the lake and a guardhouse and its equipment on the shore. It was commissioned in 2010 by the Indianapolis Museum of Art for its sculpture garden, known as the 100 Acres Park.. Eden II is a public artwork by the Finnish artist Tea Mäkipää, located on the grounds of the Indianapolis Museum of Art in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. It is a mixed-media installation, consisting of a derelict ship on the lake and a guardhouse and its equipment on the shore. It was commissioned in 2010 by the Indianapolis Museum of Art for its sculpture garden, known as the 100 Acres Park.. 
Aurora. Author Name: Mark di Suvero. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . Aurora is a public artwork by American artist Mark di Suvero. It is in the collection of the National Gallery of Art and on display at the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden in Washington, D.C., United States.. Aurora is a public artwork by American artist Mark di Suvero. It is in the collection of the National Gallery of Art and on display at the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden in Washington, D.C., United States.. 
Portrait of Andrea Navagero and Agostino Beazzano. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Andrea Navagero e Agostino Beazzano is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael, created in 1516. It is housed in the Galleria Doria Pamphilj, Rome.. The Portrait of Andrea Navagero e Agostino Beazzano is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael, created in 1516. It is housed in the Galleria Doria Pamphilj, Rome.. 
Embrace. Author Name: Sorel Etrog. . . Embrace is a public art work by artist Sorel Etrog located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The abstract sculpture is made of bronze; it is installed on a base on the lawn.. Embrace is a public art work by artist Sorel Etrog located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The abstract sculpture is made of bronze; it is installed on a base on the lawn.. 
The Spirit of Life. Author Name: Daniel Chester French. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/American_Renaissance. . "The Spirit of Life" is a sculpture by American sculptor Daniel Chester French.. "The Spirit of Life" is a sculpture by American sculptor Daniel Chester French.. 
American Doughboy Bringing Home Victory. Author Name: Lewis, Alonzo Victor. . . American Doughboy Bringing Home Victory, also known as Armistice and Spirit of the American Doughboy, is an outdoor 1932 bronze sculpture and war memorial by Alonzo Victor Lewis, originally installed outside Seattle Center's Veterans Hall, and later relocated to Evergreen Washelli Memorial Park, in the U.S. state of Washington. It was originally commissioned in 1921 in plaster and was called American Doughboy Bringing Home the Bacon. In 1932, funds for a permanent memorial led to the dedication of a bronze cast with "certain changes in appearance from the original". The sculpture was surveyed and deemed "treatment urgent" by the Smithsonian Institution's "Save Outdoor Sculpture!" program in August 1994.. American Doughboy Bringing Home Victory, also known as Armistice and Spirit of the American Doughboy, is an outdoor 1932 bronze sculpture and war memorial by Alonzo Victor Lewis, originally installed outside Seattle Center's Veterans Hall, and later relocated to Evergreen Washelli Memorial Park, in the U.S. state of Washington. It was originally commissioned in 1921 in plaster and was called American Doughboy Bringing Home the Bacon. In 1932, funds for a permanent memorial led to the dedication of a bronze cast with "certain changes in appearance from the original". The sculpture was surveyed and deemed "treatment urgent" by the Smithsonian Institution's "Save Outdoor Sculpture!" program in August 1994. In 1998, the statue was relocated to Evergreen Washelli Memorial Park.[citation needed]. 
The Accordionist. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The Accordionist is a 1911 painting by Pablo Picasso. As stated by the title, the painting is meant to portray a man playing an accordion. The division of three-dimensional forms into a two-dimensional plane indicate that the painting is in the style of analytic cubism, which was developed by Picasso and Georges Braque between 1907 and 1914. The onset of cubism is possibly due to Picasso and Braque rebelling against centuries of traditional, realistic art that imitates the natural world.. The Accordionist is a 1911 painting by Pablo Picasso. As stated by the title, the painting is meant to portray a man playing an accordion. The division of three-dimensional forms into a two-dimensional plane indicate that the painting is in the style of analytic cubism, which was developed by Picasso and Georges Braque between 1907 and 1914. The onset of cubism is possibly due to Picasso and Braque rebelling against centuries of traditional, realistic art that imitates the natural world. In earlier stages of analytic cubism, such as Picasso's Carafe, Jug and Fruit Bowl, Picasso begins to break up the subject matter and alter the sense of depth. However, in earlier work there is still a defined sense of the subject's shape and volume. The picture plane is distorted, but not to the same extent as later paintings such as The Accordionist which verge on complete abstraction. Also differentiating early and late analytical cubism is the use of color. In Carafe, Jug and Fruit Bowl Picasso uses color to define the table cloth, bowls, and fruit, allowing the viewer to easily discern the subject matter, despite the slight flattening and separation of the picture plane. The Accordionist on the other hand is almost monochromatic which further camouflages the subject.. 
Nocturne: Blue and Silver - Chelsea. Author Name: James Abbott McNeill Whistler. . Author Movement: Founder of Tonalism. . Nocturne: Blue and Silver – Chelsea is a painting. It is the earliest of the London Nocturnes by James McNeill Whistler.The work has influences from Oriental art. The connection to Japanese prints and Chinese paintings is underscored by Whistler's use of the 'butterfly' signature in the centre of the bottom edge of the painting.. Nocturne: Blue and Silver – Chelsea is a painting. It is the earliest of the London Nocturnes by James McNeill Whistler. The work has influences from Oriental art. The connection to Japanese prints and Chinese paintings is underscored by Whistler's use of the 'butterfly' signature in the centre of the bottom edge of the painting.. 
The Age of Reptiles. Author Name: Zallinger, Rudolph. . . The Age of Reptiles is a 110-foot (34 m) mural depicting the period of ancient history when reptiles were the dominant creatures on the earth, painted by Rudolph F. Zallinger. The fresco sits in the Yale Peabody Museum in New Haven, Connecticut, and was completed in 1947 after three years of work. The Age of Reptiles was at one time the largest painting in the world, and depicts a span of nearly 350 million years in Earth's history.. The Age of Reptiles is a 110-foot (34 m) mural depicting the period of ancient history when reptiles were the dominant creatures on the earth, painted by Rudolph F. Zallinger. The fresco sits in the Yale Peabody Museum in New Haven, Connecticut, and was completed in 1947 after three years of work. The Age of Reptiles was at one time the largest painting in the world, and depicts a span of nearly 350 million years in Earth's history. Painted in the Renaissance fresco secco technique, The Age of Reptiles showcases the contemporary view of dinosaurs as slow, sluggish creatures (a view that has been gradually replaced by more active dinosaurs). Zallinger received the Addison Emery Verrill medal in 1980 for the mural.. 
Fountain of Time. Author Name: Lorado Taft. . . Fountain of Time, or simply Time, is a sculpture by Lorado Taft, measuring 126 feet 10 inches (38.66 m) in length, situated at the western edge of the Midway Plaisance within Washington Park in Chicago, Illinois, in the United States. This location is in the Washington Park community area on Chicago's South Side. Inspired by Henry Austin Dobson's poem, "Paradox of Time", and with its 100 figures passing before Father Time, the work was created as a monument to the first 100 years of peace between the United States and Great Britain, resulting from the Treaty of Ghent in 1814. Although the fountain's water began running in 1920, the sculpture was not dedicated to the city until 1922. The sculpture is a contributing structure to the Washington Park United States Registered Historic District,. Fountain of Time, or simply Time, is a sculpture by Lorado Taft, measuring 126 feet 10 inches (38.66 m) in length, situated at the western edge of the Midway Plaisance within Washington Park in Chicago, Illinois, in the United States. This location is in the Washington Park community area on Chicago's South Side. Inspired by Henry Austin Dobson's poem, "Paradox of Time", and with its 100 figures passing before Father Time, the work was created as a monument to the first 100 years of peace between the United States and Great Britain, resulting from the Treaty of Ghent in 1814. Although the fountain's water began running in 1920, the sculpture was not dedicated to the city until 1922. The sculpture is a contributing structure to the Washington Park United States Registered Historic District, which is a National Register of Historic Places listing. Part of a larger beautification plan for the Midway Plaisance, Time was constructed from a new type of molded, steel-reinforced concrete that was claimed to be more durable and cheaper than alternatives. It was said to be the first of any kind of finished work of art made of concrete. Before the completion of Millennium Park in 2004, it was considered the most important installation in the Chicago Park District. Time is one of several Chicago works of art funded by Benjamin Ferguson's trust fund. Time has undergone several restorations because of deterioration and decline caused by natural and urban elements. During the late 1990s and the first few years of the 21st century it underwent repairs that corrected many of the problems caused by these earlier restorations. Although extensive renovation of the sculpture was completed as recently as 2005, the supporters of Time continue to seek resources for additional lighting, and the National Trust for Historic Preservation has nominated it for further funding.. 
Mademoiselle Rose. Author Name: Eugène Delacroix. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . Mademoiselle Rose (also Seated Nude) is a painting by French Romantic artist Eugène Delacroix, regarded as the leader of the French Romantic school. This nude was painted before 1824, and is currently held and exhibited at the Louvre in Paris. Another is at the Alte Nationalgalerie in Berlin.. Mademoiselle Rose (also Seated Nude) is a painting by French Romantic artist Eugène Delacroix, regarded as the leader of the French Romantic school. This nude was painted before 1824, and is currently held and exhibited at the Louvre in Paris. Another is at the Alte Nationalgalerie in Berlin.. 
The kill of deer. Author Name: Gustave Courbet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The kill of deer (L'Hallali au cerf in French), is a very large picture (355 by 505 cm), representing a hunting scene, painted in 1867 by Gustave Courbet. The picture is currently on display in the Musée d'Orsay of Paris.. The kill of deer (L'Hallali au cerf in French), is a very large picture (355 by 505 cm), representing a hunting scene, painted in 1867 by Gustave Courbet. The picture is currently on display in the Musée d'Orsay of Paris.. 
The Adoration of the Magi. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . The Adoration of the Magi is an oil painting on wood panel attributed to Netherlandish artist Hieronymus Bosch, executed around 1499. It is housed in the Philadelphia Museum of Art, USA. The museum's catalog assign it to around 1518, as having been finished by Bosch's workshop. According to Dendochronologic research, it could have been painted in 1493-1499.. The Adoration of the Magi is an oil painting on wood panel attributed to Netherlandish artist Hieronymus Bosch, executed around 1499. It is housed in the Philadelphia Museum of Art, USA. The museum's catalog assign it to around 1518, as having been finished by Bosch's workshop. According to Dendochronologic research, it could have been painted in 1493-1499.. 
Landscape with the Flight into Egypt. Author Name: Annibale Carracci. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Landscape with the Flight into Egypt is a painting by the Italian Baroque painter Annibale Carracci. Dating from c. 1604, it remains in the palace for which it was painted in Rome as part of the collection of the Galleria Doria Pamphilj.The painting was commissioned in 1603 by Cardinal Pietro Aldobrandini for the family chapel in his palace in Rome, later known as Palazzo Doria Pamphilj. The commission includes six paintings in six lunettes, which were executed by Carracci and his pupils (including Francesco Albani, Domenichino and Giovanni Lanfranco).. Landscape with the Flight into Egypt is a painting by the Italian Baroque painter Annibale Carracci. Dating from c. 1604, it remains in the palace for which it was painted in Rome as part of the collection of the Galleria Doria Pamphilj. The painting was commissioned in 1603 by Cardinal Pietro Aldobrandini for the family chapel in his palace in Rome, later known as Palazzo Doria Pamphilj. The commission includes six paintings in six lunettes, which were executed by Carracci and his pupils (including Francesco Albani, Domenichino and Giovanni Lanfranco). The work is frequently regarded as a key work in Baroque landscape painting and is the "most celebrated example" of the "new landscape style" Carracci developed in Rome of "carefully constructed landscape panoramas", according to Rudolf Wittkower. For John Rupert Martin it is "the archetypal classical landscape, later to be emulated with variations by Domenichino, Poussin and Claude ... the small scale of the figures in relation to the spacious natural setting at once establishes a new priority in which landscape takes first place and history second"; though insofar as it is "new", that is for Italian painting, as such works had been common in Northern painting since Joachim Patinir began to use the same reversal of scale almost a century before. The journey of the Holy Family is echoed by other moving elements including the sheep, birds, cows and the camels on the ridge at left. Wittkower sees in it "a heroic and aristocratic conception of Nature tamed and ennobled by the presence of man", as such works always contain a large man-made feature, here the castle "severely composed of horizontals and verticals" under which the party moves. They are placed at the meeting of two diagonals represented by the sheep and the river, "thus figures and buildings are intimately blended with the carefully arranged pattern of the landscape". Kenneth Clark mentions the work as an example of the "ideal landscape" driven to promote itself in the hierarchy of genres by emulating (in the absence of much evidence of what classical landscape painting was like) an essentially literary vision, largely derived from the pastoral poems of Virgil: "the features of which it is composed must be chosen from nature, as poetic diction is chosen from ordinary speech, for their elegance, their ancient associations, and their faculty of harmonious combination. Ut pictura poesis". Clark's praise of the work is noticeably faint, as it lacks the spirit he finds in Giorgione and Claude in the same tradition: "At their best, as in the lunettes in the Doria Gallery, Annibale Carracci's landscapes are admirable pieces of picture-making, in which agreeably stylized parts are built up into a harmonious whole. We recognize the science which has gone into the construction of the castle in the centre of the Flight into Egypt... But in the end these eclectic landscapes are of interest only to historians".. 
Vase of Flowers in a Window Niche. Author Name: Ambrosius Bosschaert. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Vase of Flowers in a Window Niche is a still life oil on canvas painting of flowers by Ambrosius Bosschaert the Elder. It was painted in 1620 and is now in the Mauritshuis in The Hague.. Vase of Flowers in a Window Niche is a still life oil on canvas painting of flowers by Ambrosius Bosschaert the Elder. It was painted in 1620 and is now in the Mauritshuis in The Hague.. 
Three Archangels and Young Tobias. Author Name: Filippino Lippi. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Three Archangels with Young Tobias is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Filippino Lippi, dated 1485. It is housed in the Galleria Sabauda of Turin.On the background of a rocky landscape, resembling that of the London Adoration of the Magi, the picture represents the three archangels: Michael on the left, Raphael in the centre, and Gabriel holding a lily, together with a young Tobias, son of Tobit. The scene is clearly inspired to a Voyage of Tobias by Botticini, once in the Florentine church of Florence and now at the Uffizi, while the angels resemble those painted by Filippino himself in the Liberation of St. Peter in the Brancacci Chapel.. Three Archangels with Young Tobias is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Filippino Lippi, dated 1485. It is housed in the Galleria Sabauda of Turin. On the background of a rocky landscape, resembling that of the London Adoration of the Magi, the picture represents the three archangels: Michael on the left, Raphael in the centre, and Gabriel holding a lily, together with a young Tobias, son of Tobit. The scene is clearly inspired to a Voyage of Tobias by Botticini, once in the Florentine church of Florence and now at the Uffizi, while the angels resemble those painted by Filippino himself in the Liberation of St. Peter in the Brancacci Chapel. The work was once attributed to Sandro Botticelli or his workshop.. 
Portrait of Giovanni de' Medici as a Child. Author Name: Bronzino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . The Portrait of Giovanni de' Medici as a Child (c. 1545) is an oil on panel painting by the Florentine artist Agnolo Bronzino. It is currently located at the Galleria degli Uffizi in Florence.. The Portrait of Giovanni de' Medici as a Child (c. 1545) is an oil on panel painting by the Florentine artist Agnolo Bronzino. It is currently located at the Galleria degli Uffizi in Florence.. 
Luxe, Calme et Volupté. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . Luxe, Calme et Volupté is an oil painting by the French artist Henri Matisse. Both foundational in the oeuvre of Matisse and a pivotal work in the history of art, Luxe, Calme et Volupté is considered the starting point of Fauvism.. Luxe, Calme et Volupté is an oil painting by the French artist Henri Matisse. Both foundational in the oeuvre of Matisse and a pivotal work in the history of art, Luxe, Calme et Volupté is considered the starting point of Fauvism.. 
Junior Sergeant. Author Name: Chekalov, Vladimir. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Retrospective Exhibition "Lyrical motifs in postwar Leningrad painting" (Russian: Лирика в произведениях ленинградских художников военного поколения) became one of the most notable event in the Saint Petersburg exhibition live of 1995. The Exhibition took place in Nikolai Nekrasov Memorial Museum and was dedicated to 50th Anniversary of the Victory in Great Patriotic war of 1941-1945. There were exhibited 146 art works from private collections of more than 50 importrant masters of the Leningrad School of Painting.. Retrospective Exhibition "Lyrical motifs in postwar Leningrad painting" (Russian: Лирика в произведениях ленинградских художников военного поколения) became one of the most notable event in the Saint Petersburg exhibition live of 1995. The Exhibition took place in Nikolai Nekrasov Memorial Museum and was dedicated to 50th Anniversary of the Victory in Great Patriotic war of 1941-1945. There were exhibited 146 art works from private collections of more than 50 importrant masters of the Leningrad School of Painting.. 
Peace Monument. Author Name: Mulligan, Charles. . . Peace Monument is a cenotaph designed by Charles Mulligan. It is located at the Adams County Courthouse in Decatur, Indiana in the United States. It is a war memorial devoted to peace, active women in the American Civil War, and as a general war memorial celebrating the sacrifice of soldiers in war. Peace Monument is the first monument in the United States specifically devoted to Peace.. Peace Monument is a cenotaph designed by Charles Mulligan. It is located at the Adams County Courthouse in Decatur, Indiana in the United States. It is a war memorial devoted to peace, active women in the American Civil War, and as a general war memorial celebrating the sacrifice of soldiers in war. Peace Monument is the first monument in the United States specifically devoted to Peace.. 
John Christian Bullitt. Author Name: Boyle, John. . . John Christian Bullitt is a bronze statue by  John J. Boyle. It is located on the north plaza of Philadelphia City Hall, at  Broad Street, and  JFK Boulevard.It was unveiled in July 1907.The inscription reads:(Lower proper left side:) JOHN J BOYLE, SC, 1907 (Lower proper right side:) ROMAN BRONZE WORKS, NEW YORK (Base, front:) JOHNCHRISTIANBULLITT1842-1892. John Christian Bullitt is a bronze statue by John J. Boyle. It is located on the north plaza of Philadelphia City Hall, at Broad Street, and JFK Boulevard.It was unveiled in July 1907. The inscription reads:(Lower proper left side:) JOHN J BOYLE, SC, 1907 (Lower proper right side:) ROMAN BRONZE WORKS, NEW YORK (Base, front:) JOHNCHRISTIANBULLITT1842-1892. 
First Steps. Author Name: Georgios Jakobides. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . First Steps (German: Erste Schritte, Greek: Τα πρώτα βήματα) is an 1893 oil painting by Georgios Jakobides, one of the main representatives of the Greek artistic movement of the Munich School.It was painted in two versions and painted on Realism style on painting genre. Both versions show a scene in a typical traditional Bavarian house.The painting shows in the second version a grandmother helping her granddaughter for her first steps. It also features an elder sister watching her younger sister's first steps. This version was completed in 1893.. First Steps (German: Erste Schritte, Greek: Τα πρώτα βήματα) is an 1893 oil painting by Georgios Jakobides, one of the main representatives of the Greek artistic movement of the Munich School. It was painted in two versions and painted on Realism style on painting genre. Both versions show a scene in a typical traditional Bavarian house. The first version shows a grandfather helping his granddaughter for her first steps. The scene is set in a Bavarian village home interior, bathed in the light pouring through the open window. Dressed in dark cherry tones, the grandmother is holding the blond baby, full of courage and smiling, taking its first steps in the world, on top of a wooden table. The grandmother has left her red knitwear in a corner. The baby's elder sister, seated with her back towards the foreground, is waiting to receive the baby with her arms open in a protective gesture.First shown at the Glaspalast exhibition in Munich in 1892, this painting marks a key change in Iakovidis' work regarding his interpretation of light. The natural light floods the scene as it comes through the window, adding vibrancy and ambiance. The painting shows in the second version a grandmother helping her granddaughter for her first steps. It also features an elder sister watching her younger sister's first steps. This version was completed in 1893.. 
Valentine Rescuing Sylvia from Proteus. Author Name: William Holman Hunt. . . Valentine Rescuing Sylvia from Proteus is an 1851 oil painting by William Holman Hunt. It depicts a scene from William Shakespeare's The Two Gentlemen of Verona. The top left and right portions of the frame include excerpts from act V, scene IV of the play. From left to right, the characters are Julia, disguised as a page, Sylvia, Valentine, and Proteus, who is in love with Julia. Sylvia's father, the Duke of Milain, and a group of followers are present in the background.. Valentine Rescuing Sylvia from Proteus is an 1851 oil painting by William Holman Hunt. It depicts a scene from William Shakespeare's The Two Gentlemen of Verona. The top left and right portions of the frame include excerpts from act V, scene IV of the play. From left to right, the characters are Julia, disguised as a page, Sylvia, Valentine, and Proteus, who is in love with Julia. Sylvia's father, the Duke of Milain, and a group of followers are present in the background. The painting was on display at the Royal Academy in 1851, then was transferred to the Liverpool Academy in 1851. In 1887, the painting was bought by the Birmingham Museum and Art Gallery. As of 2014, the painting is still in their collection.. 
Portrait of Francesco Gonzaga. Author Name: Andrea Mantegna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Portrait of Francesco Gonzaga (c. 1461) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Andrea Mantegna. It is housed in the National Museum of Capodimonte, Naples, Italy.Francesco Gonzaga was the second son of Ludovico Gonzaga, Marquess of Mantua, who had been appointed as cardinal by Pope Pius II aged seventeen, just after the Council of Mantua.The painting is one of the first portraits executed by Mantegna at the Mantuan court, where he had moved in 1460.. Portrait of Francesco Gonzaga (c. 1461) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Andrea Mantegna. It is housed in the National Museum of Capodimonte, Naples, Italy. Francesco Gonzaga was the second son of Ludovico Gonzaga, Marquess of Mantua, who had been appointed as cardinal by Pope Pius II aged seventeen, just after the Council of Mantua. The painting is one of the first portraits executed by Mantegna at the Mantuan court, where he had moved in 1460.. 
Rienzi vowing to obtain justice for the death of his young brother, slain in a skirmish between the Colonna and the Orsini factions. Author Name: William Holman Hunt. . . Rienzi vowing to obtain justice for the death of his young brother, slain in a skirmish between the Colonna and the Orsini factions (or simply, Rienzi) is a painting by William Holman Hunt, produced in 1849 and currently in a private collection.. Rienzi vowing to obtain justice for the death of his young brother, slain in a skirmish between the Colonna and the Orsini factions (or simply, Rienzi) is a painting by William Holman Hunt, produced in 1849 and currently in a private collection.. 
Bear Gargoyle. Author Name: Wayne Chabre. . . Bear Gargoyle is an outdoor 1988 sculpture by Wayne Chabre, installed at the University of Oregon Museum of Natural and Cultural History in Eugene, Oregon, United States. It depicts the head of a grizzly bear with a Kwakwaka'wakw (Kwakiutl Indian) bear mask on top. The sculpture is made of hammered 32 oz. copper over a stainless steel frame and measures approximately 5.5 feet (1.7 m) x 4 feet (1.2 m) x 5 feet (1.5 m). Its condition was deemed "treatment needed" by the Smithsonian Institution's "Save Outdoor Sculpture!" program in March 1993. The sculpture is administered by the University of Oregon.. Bear Gargoyle is an outdoor 1988 sculpture by Wayne Chabre, installed at the University of Oregon Museum of Natural and Cultural History in Eugene, Oregon, United States. It depicts the head of a grizzly bear with a Kwakwaka'wakw (Kwakiutl Indian) bear mask on top. The sculpture is made of hammered 32 oz. copper over a stainless steel frame and measures approximately 5.5 feet (1.7 m) x 4 feet (1.2 m) x 5 feet (1.5 m). Its condition was deemed "treatment needed" by the Smithsonian Institution's "Save Outdoor Sculpture!" program in March 1993. The sculpture is administered by the University of Oregon.. 
Salome. Author Name: Titian. . . Salome is an oil painting by Italian late Renaissance painter Titian, dated to around 1515 and now held at the Doria Pamphilj Gallery in Rome.. Salome is an oil painting by Italian late Renaissance painter Titian, dated to around 1515 and now held at the Doria Pamphilj Gallery in Rome.. 
Restful Place. Author Name: Lowe, Truman. . . Restful Place is a public artwork by Ho-Chunk artist Truman Lowe, located at Indianapolis Art Center in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. "Restful Place" was installed as part of the Center's ARTSPARK initiative.. Restful Place is a public artwork by Ho-Chunk artist Truman Lowe, located at Indianapolis Art Center in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. "Restful Place" was installed as part of the Center's ARTSPARK initiative.. 
Madonna and Child with St. John the Baptist and St. Mary Magdalene. Author Name: Landi, Neroccio Di Bartolomeo De'. . . Madonna and Child with St. John the Baptist and St. Mary Magdalene is a painting by Neroccio di Bartolomeo de' Landi. The painting is a tempera on wood from 1495. It is currently held by the Indianapolis Museum of Art.. Madonna and Child with St. John the Baptist and St. Mary Magdalene is a painting by Neroccio di Bartolomeo de' Landi. The painting is a tempera on wood from 1495. It is currently held by the Indianapolis Museum of Art.. 
The Wave and the Pearl. Author Name: Paul-Jacques-Aimé Baudry. . . The Pearl and the Wave (French: La Perle et la vague), also known as The Wave and the Pearl, is a painting by the French artist Paul-Jacques-Aimé Baudry created in 1862. The painting shows a nude woman lying on the edge of a rocky sea shore, with her head turned to gaze backward over her shoulder towards the viewer. Waves are breaking in the background.. The Pearl and the Wave (French: La Perle et la vague), also known as The Wave and the Pearl, is a painting by the French artist Paul-Jacques-Aimé Baudry created in 1862. The painting shows a nude woman lying on the edge of a rocky sea shore, with her head turned to gaze backward over her shoulder towards the viewer. Waves are breaking in the background. The Pearl and the Wave was the subject of contemporary curiosity. The painting was met with praise from art critics for its technique and distinguishing quality. Artist Kenyon Cox described The Pearl and the Wave as "the most perfect painting of the nude" in the 19th century. Cox identified some features in the painting which he described as "grace of attitude", the well-rounded but slim body of a young woman, the visible dimple in the shoulder, the "savoring of subtle line", the "loveliness of the color", the "solid yet mysterious modelling", and the "perfection of delicate surface". Cox believed these features make this painting what he calls "a pure masterpiece". Art historian Bailey Van Hook identified The Pearl and the Wave as one of the examples of nude paintings where the subject woman is shown lying down sluggishly for the gratification of the looker-on who she describes as "voyeuristic viewer". Nineteenth-century French art critic Jules-Antoine Castagnary commented that the woman in the painting may be "a Parisian modiste ... lying in wait for a millionaire gone astray in this wild spot." In 1863, Empress consort Eugénie de Montijo bought the painting for 20,000 francs. It was her second most costly purchase of the paintings of that time. Today the painting is in the collection of the Museo del Prado in Madrid, the main Spanish national art museum.. 
Mercedes-Benz Typ C 111 Versuchswagen, 1970. Author Name: Andy Warhol. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Cars is a series of artworks by the American artist Andy Warhol, commissioned by Mercedes-Benz in 1986.A German art dealer, Hans Meyer, commissioned the first painting, of a 300SL coupe, to celebrate the 1986 centenary of the invention of the motor car. When Mercedes-Benz saw the result, it commissioned the entire series, which was to track the evolution of its designs from the Benz Patent-Motorwagen 1885, Daimler Motor Carriage (1886), and Mercedes 35 hp (1901), to the Mercedes-Benz W125, and the Mercedes-Benz C111.. Cars is a series of artworks by the American artist Andy Warhol, commissioned by Mercedes-Benz in 1986. A German art dealer, Hans Meyer, commissioned the first painting, of a 300SL coupe, to celebrate the 1986 centenary of the invention of the motor car. When Mercedes-Benz saw the result, it commissioned the entire series, which was to track the evolution of its designs from the Benz Patent-Motorwagen 1885, Daimler Motor Carriage (1886), and Mercedes 35 hp (1901), to the Mercedes-Benz W125, and the Mercedes-Benz C111. Now part of Mercedes-Benz's corporate art collection, Cars was unfinished at the time of Warhol's death in 1987. Warhol completed 36 silkscreen prints and 13 drawings of eight Mercedes models before his death. Warhol had planned to cover 20 models in 80 pieces. The series was based on photographs of cars, and were the first non-American designed objects that Warhol had portrayed in his work. Cars has been exhibited just twice in its entirety in public: in Tübingen in 1988, and at the Albertina, Vienna from 22 January–16 May 2010. Half of the series was shown in Milton Keynes in September 2001. Cars was Warhol's second automotive art project. In 1979 Warhol was commissioned by BMW to paint a Group 4 race version of the then elite supercar BMW M1 for the fourth installment in the BMW Art Car Project. Unlike the three artists before him, Warhol declined the use of a small scale practice model, instead opting to immediately paint directly onto the full scale automobile. It was indicated that Warhol spent only a total of 23 minutes painting the entire car. Warhol's work for Mercedes Benz and his similar commissions for Perrier have been criticized as "undistinguished glitz", with critics lamenting Warhol's "passionate avarice", accusing him of crossing the line into advertisements for their subjects.. 
Rideau, Cruchon et Compotier. Author Name: Paul Cézanne. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Rideau, Cruchon et Compotier is a painting created circa 1893 to 1894 by French artist Paul Cézanne (19 January 1839 – 22 October 1906). It is considered the most expensive still life ever sold at an auction.Cézanne was famous for painting still lifes which expressed complex emotions while still being based upon carefully observed reality. Paintings of this type would eventually lead to the creation of new art styles during the 20th century such as Cubism.. Rideau, Cruchon et Compotier is a painting created circa 1893 to 1894 by French artist Paul Cézanne (19 January 1839 – 22 October 1906). It is considered the most expensive still life ever sold at an auction. Cézanne was famous for painting still lifes which expressed complex emotions while still being based upon carefully observed reality. Paintings of this type would eventually lead to the creation of new art styles during the 20th century such as Cubism.. 
John Harte McGraw. Author Name: Brooks, Richard E.. . . John Harte McGraw is an outdoor 1912 bronze sculpture depicting the former governor of the same name by Richard E. Brooks, installed in McGraw Place at the intersection of Fifth Avenue and Olive Street in Seattle, in the U.S. state of Washington.. John Harte McGraw is an outdoor 1912 bronze sculpture depicting the former governor of the same name by Richard E. Brooks, installed in McGraw Place at the intersection of Fifth Avenue and Olive Street in Seattle, in the U.S. state of Washington.. 
Courre Merlan. Author Name: Jean Dubuffet. . . Courre Merlan (Whiting Chase) is an oil painting by French artist Jean Dubuffet. It has been part of the permanent collection of the Indianapolis Museum of Art since 1992.. Courre Merlan (Whiting Chase) is an oil painting by French artist Jean Dubuffet. It has been part of the permanent collection of the Indianapolis Museum of Art since 1992.. 
The Age of Innocence. Author Name: Sir Joshua Reynolds. . . The Age of Innocence is an oil on canvas picture by Sir Joshua Reynolds, painted in either 1785 or 1788 and measuring 765 x 638 mm. The sitter is unknown, but was possibly Reynolds's great-niece Theophila Gwatkin (who was three in 1785), or Lady Anne Spencer (1773–1865), the youngest daughter of the 4th Duke of Marlborough. The picture was presented to the National Gallery in 1847 by Robert Vernon, and has hung in the Tate since 1951.. The Age of Innocence is an oil on canvas picture by Sir Joshua Reynolds, painted in either 1785 or 1788 and measuring 765 x 638 mm. The sitter is unknown, but was possibly Reynolds's great-niece Theophila Gwatkin (who was three in 1785), or Lady Anne Spencer (1773–1865), the youngest daughter of the 4th Duke of Marlborough. The picture was presented to the National Gallery in 1847 by Robert Vernon, and has hung in the Tate since 1951.. 
The Westward Journey. Author Name: Herman Carl Mueller. . . The Westward Journey, also listed as Indians, Reaper, Blacksmith, Pioneer Family, is a set of outdoor sculptures made by Herman Carl Mueller in 1886–1887, located above the south portico of the Indiana Statehouse in Indianapolis, the capital of the U.S. state of Indiana.. The Westward Journey, also listed as Indians, Reaper, Blacksmith, Pioneer Family, is a set of outdoor sculptures made by Herman Carl Mueller in 1886–1887, located above the south portico of the Indiana Statehouse in Indianapolis, the capital of the U.S. state of Indiana.. 
Music in the Tuileries. Author Name: Édouard Manet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Music in the Tuileries is an 1862 painting by Édouard Manet. It is jointly owned by the National Gallery, London and the The Hugh Lane, Dublin. It currently hangs in Dublin.The work is an early example of Manet's painterly style, inspired by Frans Hals and Diego Velázquez, and it is a harbinger of his lifelong interest in the subject of leisure. The painting influenced Manet's contemporaries - such as Monet, Renoir and Bazille - to paint similar large groups of people.. Music in the Tuileries is an 1862 painting by Édouard Manet. It is jointly owned by the National Gallery, London and the The Hugh Lane, Dublin. It currently hangs in Dublin. The work is an early example of Manet's painterly style, inspired by Frans Hals and Diego Velázquez, and it is a harbinger of his lifelong interest in the subject of leisure. The painting influenced Manet's contemporaries - such as Monet, Renoir and Bazille - to paint similar large groups of people. The painting depicts the gatherings of Parisians at weekly concerts in the Tuileries gardens near the Louvre, although no musicians are depicted. While the picture was regarded as unfinished by some, the suggested atmosphere imparts a sense of what the Tuileries gardens were like at the time; one may imagine the music and conversation. The iron chairs in the foreground had just replaced the wooden chairs in the garden in 1862. Manet has included several of his friends, artists, authors, and musicians who take part, and a self-portrait. Manet is depicted on the far left; next to him is another painter Albert de Balleroy. To their right, seated, is sculptor and critic Zacharie Astruc. Manet's brother Eugène Manet is in foreground, right of centre, with white trousers; the composer Jacques Offenbach with glasses and moustache sits against a tree to the right; critic Théophile Gautier stands against a tree in brown suit and full beard, while author Charles Baudelaire is to the left of Gautier. Henri Fantin-Latour is further left, with beard, looking at the viewer. The fair-haired child in the centre is Léon Leenhoff. The work measures 76.2 × 118.1 centimetres (30.0 × 46.5 in). It was first exhibited in 1863, and Manet sold the painting to opera singer and collector Jean-Baptiste Faure in 1883. It was sold on to dealer Durand-Ruel in 1898, and then to collector Sir Hugh Lane in 1903. After Lane's death, when RMS Lusitania was sunk in 1915, an unwitnessed codicil to his will left the painting to the Dublin City Gallery (now known as The Hugh Lane). The codicil was found to be invalid, and in 1917 a court case decided that his previous will left the work to the National Gallery in London. After intervention from the Irish government, the two galleries reached a compromise in 1959, agreeing to share the paintings, with half of the Lane Bequest lent and shown in Dublin every five years. The agreement was varied in 1993 so that 31 of the 39 paintings would stay in Ireland, and four of the remaining eight would be lent to Dublin for 6 years at a time.. 
Madonna della Misericordia. Author Name: Piero della Francesca. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Polyptych of the Misericordia is a painting conserved in the Museo Civico di Sansepolcro in the town of Sansepolcro, region of Tuscany, Italy. The painting is one of the earliest works of the Italian Renaissance painter Piero della Francesca, who was born in the town. The central panel is of the common motif of the Virgin of Mercy or Madonna della Misericordia.The last part of the polyptych to be painted was the main central panel showing the Madonna della Misericordia. The panel portrays the mercifully protective gesture of the Madonna enfolding her followers in her mantle.. The Polyptych of the Misericordia is a painting conserved in the Museo Civico di Sansepolcro in the town of Sansepolcro, region of Tuscany, Italy. The painting is one of the earliest works of the Italian Renaissance painter Piero della Francesca, who was born in the town. The central panel is of the common motif of the Virgin of Mercy or Madonna della Misericordia. In 1445, the Compagnia della Misericordia, a confraternity of Borgo San Sepolcro, commissioned Piero, a native of the town, to paint a polyptych for them. According to the taste of the time, the polyptych was to be painted with precious colours and have a gilded background. Piero did not respect the three-year time limit set in the contract—he was busy working on many other projects. The polyptych was only finished seventeen years later, in 1462. The oldest two panels, to the left of the main panel, depict St Sebastian and St John the Baptist. St Sebastian's panel shows a close connection with Masaccio's nudes, which Piero would have seen in an early visit to Florence. Piero painted the outlying panels of the tympanum later; including the Crucifixion at the top centre, St Benedict, the Angel, the Madonna of the Annunciation, and St Francis in the sides. Towards 1450 he finished the figures of St. Andrew and St. Bernardino. The predellas, with five scenes of Jesus's life, were mostly executed by assistants. The last part of the polyptych to be painted was the main central panel showing the Madonna della Misericordia. The panel portrays the mercifully protective gesture of the Madonna enfolding her followers in her mantle. Piero resolves the difficulty of dealing with a flat solid gilded background, requested by the patrons, by placing the kneeling members of the confraternity (who commissioned the altarpiece) in the realistic three-dimensional space created by the Madonna's mantle, a space resembling the apse of a church. Notably, the Madonna is still portrayed larger in size than the human figures, a tradition in medieval painting. However, the fully three-dimensional rendering of the figure, inspired by Masaccio, and the perspective study, inspired by Brunelleschi, are plainly of the Renaissance.. 
Portrait of Count Stanislas Potocki. Author Name: Jacques-Louis David. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . The Portrait of Count Stanislas Potocki is a 1781 equestrian portrait of the Polish patron, politician, writer and Prime Minister of Poland Stanisław Kostka Potocki by the French painter Jacques-Louis David. It was painted in Rome when the artist and subject met during David's stay at the Villa Medici after winning the first prize for painting in the Prix de Rome, and chronologically after his Saint Roch interceding with the Virgin for the Plague-Stricken and before Belisarius begging for alms. Its equestrian format is owed to influences from Rubens.. The Portrait of Count Stanislas Potocki is a 1781 equestrian portrait of the Polish patron, politician, writer and Prime Minister of Poland Stanisław Kostka Potocki by the French painter Jacques-Louis David. It was painted in Rome when the artist and subject met during David's stay at the Villa Medici after winning the first prize for painting in the Prix de Rome, and chronologically after his Saint Roch interceding with the Virgin for the Plague-Stricken and before Belisarius begging for alms. Its equestrian format is owed to influences from Rubens. Potocki, the subject of the painting, displayed it at Wilanów Palace, his residence near Warsaw. Ownership passed to the Branicki family in 1892. During the Second World War it was looted by the German forces, then passed into Soviet Russian hands after the war, before being repatriated to Poland in 1956. It is now on show in the Museum of King John III's Palace at Wilanów.. 
Conestabile Madonna. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Conestabile Madonna is a small (and probably unfinished) painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael. It was likely the last work painted by Raphael in Umbria before moving to Florence.Its name comes from the Conestabile family of Perugia, from whom it was acquired by Alexander II of Russia in 1871. The Tsar presented it to his consort, Maria Alexandrovna. Since then, the painting has been on exhibit in the Hermitage Museum of St. Petersburg.. The Conestabile Madonna is a small (and probably unfinished) painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael. It was likely the last work painted by Raphael in Umbria before moving to Florence. Its name comes from the Conestabile family of Perugia, from whom it was acquired by Alexander II of Russia in 1871. The Tsar presented it to his consort, Maria Alexandrovna. Since then, the painting has been on exhibit in the Hermitage Museum of St. Petersburg. The painting portrays the Madonna holding the Child while reading a book. In 1881, when the picture was moved to canvas, it was discovered that in the original version the Madonna contemplated a pomegranate (symbol of the Passion) instead of the book.. 
Voice of Fire. Author Name: Barnett Newman. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . Voice of Fire is an acrylic on canvas abstract painting made by American painter Barnett Newman in 1967. It consists of three equally sized vertical stripes, with the outer two painted blue and the centre painted red. The work was created as a special commission for Expo 67. In 1987 it was loaned to the National Gallery of Canada in Ottawa.. Voice of Fire is an acrylic on canvas abstract painting made by American painter Barnett Newman in 1967. It consists of three equally sized vertical stripes, with the outer two painted blue and the centre painted red. The work was created as a special commission for Expo 67. In 1987 it was loaned to the National Gallery of Canada in Ottawa. The purchase of Voice of Fire by the National Gallery of Canada for its permanent collection in 1989 at a cost of $1.8 million caused a storm of controversy. Some residents mocked the purchase with striped T-shirts and ties that mimicked the painting. The 1996 book Voices of Fire: Art Rage, Power, and the State, edited by Bruce Barber, Serge Guilbaut and John O'Brian, discusses the issues around the purchase of the painting.. 
Abraham Lincoln. Author Name: Daniel Chester French. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/American_Renaissance. . Abraham Lincoln – also known as The Gettysburg Lincoln – is a bronze statue of President Abraham Lincoln by Daniel Chester French, located on the grounds of the Nebraska State Capitol. The monument was commissioned by the Abraham Lincoln Memorial Association of Lincoln, Nebraska, and produced between 1909 and its unveiling in 1912.. Abraham Lincoln – also known as The Gettysburg Lincoln – is a bronze statue of President Abraham Lincoln by Daniel Chester French, located on the grounds of the Nebraska State Capitol. The monument was commissioned by the Abraham Lincoln Memorial Association of Lincoln, Nebraska, and produced between 1909 and its unveiling in 1912. The statue was cast in bronze by Jno. Williams, Inc. of New York. Its architectural setting was created by French's longtime collaborator Henry Bacon. The 8.67 ft (2.64 m) statue stands upon a 6 ft (1.83 m) granite base and before a 20 ft (6.1 m) granite stele, on which is inscribed the text of Lincoln's Gettysburg Address. French later used much of his research for this statue – consisting largely of studying Mathew Brady's photographs of Lincoln and obtaining a copy of Leonard Volk's plaster life cast of the president – in the creation of his most famous work: the Seated Lincoln statue (1920) at the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, D.C.. 
Circe Offering the Cup to Ulysses. Author Name: John William Waterhouse. . . Circe Offering the Cup to Ulysses is an oil painting in the Pre-Raphaelite style by John William Waterhouse that was created in 1891.The painting depicts a scene from Greek mythology, the sorceress Circe offering Odysseus (called Ulysses by the Romans) a cup containing a potion with which she seeks to bring him under her spell as she has his crew. Ulysses can be seen in the mirror depicted behind Circe's throne, whilst one of Ulysses' crewmen, magically transformed into a pig, can be seen beside Circe's feet.. Circe Offering the Cup to Ulysses is an oil painting in the Pre-Raphaelite style by John William Waterhouse that was created in 1891. The painting depicts a scene from Greek mythology, the sorceress Circe offering Odysseus (called Ulysses by the Romans) a cup containing a potion with which she seeks to bring him under her spell as she has his crew. Ulysses can be seen in the mirror depicted behind Circe's throne, whilst one of Ulysses' crewmen, magically transformed into a pig, can be seen beside Circe's feet.. 
View of Arles, flowering orchards. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . View of Arles, Flowering Orchards is a painting by Vincent van Gogh, executed in spring 1889, one of several paintings he produced on the subject of Flowering Orchards (Van Gogh series) while living in Arles.. View of Arles, Flowering Orchards is a painting by Vincent van Gogh, executed in spring 1889, one of several paintings he produced on the subject of Flowering Orchards (Van Gogh series) while living in Arles.. 
Regeneration. Author Name: Alan Collins. . . Regeneration is an outdoor 1975 concrete sculpture designed by Alan Collins, located on the Andrews University campus in Berrien Springs, Michigan, United States.. Regeneration is an outdoor 1975 concrete sculpture designed by Alan Collins, located on the Andrews University campus in Berrien Springs, Michigan, United States.. 
The Green Christ. Author Name: Paul Gauguin. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . The Green Christ (in French: Le Christ vert) is a painting executed by Paul Gauguin in autumn 1889 in Pont-Aven, Brittany, France. Together with The Yellow Christ, it is considered to be one of the key-works of Symbolism in painting. It depicts a Breton woman at the foot of a calvary, or sculpture of Christ's crucifixion. Calvaries are common in town squares in Brittany.. The Green Christ (in French: Le Christ vert) is a painting executed by Paul Gauguin in autumn 1889 in Pont-Aven, Brittany, France. Together with The Yellow Christ, it is considered to be one of the key-works of Symbolism in painting. It depicts a Breton woman at the foot of a calvary, or sculpture of Christ's crucifixion. Calvaries are common in town squares in Brittany. Topographically, the site depicted is the Atlantic coast at Le Pouldu. But the calvary depicted is an amalgam of calvaires from different site; the cross is based upon that in the centre of Névez, a community close to Pont-Aven and several miles from the coast, and the figure of Christ is based upon the calvaire at Briec - also some distance from the sea.. 
Les Demoiselles d'Avignon. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Les Demoiselles d'Avignon (The Young Ladies of Avignon, and originally titled The Brothel of Avignon) is a large oil painting created in 1907 by the Spanish artist Pablo Picasso (1881–1973). The work portrays five nude female prostitutes from a brothel on Carrer d'Avinyó (Avinyó Street) in Barcelona. Each figure is depicted in a disconcerting confrontational manner and none are conventionally feminine. The women appear as slightly menacing and rendered with angular and disjointed body shapes. Three figures on the left exhibit facial features in the Iberian style of Picasso's native Spain, while the two on the right are shown with African mask-like features. The racial primitivism evoked in these masks, according to Picasso, moved him to "liberate an utterly original artistic style of compe. Les Demoiselles d'Avignon (The Young Ladies of Avignon, and originally titled The Brothel of Avignon) is a large oil painting created in 1907 by the Spanish artist Pablo Picasso (1881–1973). The work portrays five nude female prostitutes from a brothel on Carrer d'Avinyó (Avinyó Street) in Barcelona. Each figure is depicted in a disconcerting confrontational manner and none are conventionally feminine. The women appear as slightly menacing and rendered with angular and disjointed body shapes. Three figures on the left exhibit facial features in the Iberian style of Picasso's native Spain, while the two on the right are shown with African mask-like features. The racial primitivism evoked in these masks, according to Picasso, moved him to "liberate an utterly original artistic style of compelling, even savage force." In this adaptation of Primitivism and abandonment of perspective in favor of a flat, two-dimensional picture plane, Picasso makes a radical departure from traditional European painting. This proto-Cubist work is widely considered to be seminal in the early development of both Cubism and Modern art. Les Demoiselles was revolutionary and controversial, and led to wide anger and disagreement, even amongst his closest associates and friends. Matisse considered the work something of a bad joke, yet indirectly reacted to it in his 1908 Bathers with a Turtle. Braque too initially disliked the painting, yet perhaps more than anyone else, studied the work in great detail. And effectively, his subsequent friendship and collaboration with Picasso led to the Cubist revolution. Its resemblance to Cézanne's Les Grandes Baigneuses, Paul Gauguin's statue Oviri and El Greco's Opening of the Fifth Seal has been widely discussed by later critics. A photograph of the Les Demoiselles was first published in an article by Gelett Burgess entitled The Wild Men of Paris, Matisse, Picasso and Les Fauves, The Architectural Record, May 1910. At the time of its first exhibition in 1916, the painting was deemed immoral. The work, painted in the studio of Picasso at Le Bateau-Lavoir, was seen publicly for the first time at the Salon d’Antin in July 1916; an exhibition organized by the poet André Salmon. It was at this exhibition that André Salmon, who had already mentioned the painting in 1912 under the title Le Bordel philosophique, gave the work its present title Les Demoiselles d’Avignon (in preference to the title originally chosen by Picasso, Le Bordel d’Avignon) to lessen its scandalous impact on the public. Picasso, who had always referred to it as mon bordel (my brothel), or Le Bordel d'Avignon, never liked Salmon's title, and as an edulcoration would have preferred Las chicas de Avignon instead.. 
Cymon and Iphigenia. Author Name: (PRA). . Author Movement: Academicism, Neoclassicism and British Aestheticism http://ateneum.fi/en/frederic-leighton. . Cymon and Iphigenia is an oil on canvas painting by Frederic Leighton, 1st Baron Leighton. The painting does not bear a date but was first exhibited at the Royal Academy of Arts, London, in 1884. The Art Gallery of New South Wales in Sydney, Australia, purchased it from Christie's in London during 1976.. Cymon and Iphigenia is an oil on canvas painting by Frederic Leighton, 1st Baron Leighton. The painting does not bear a date but was first exhibited at the Royal Academy of Arts, London, in 1884. The Art Gallery of New South Wales in Sydney, Australia, purchased it from Christie's in London during 1976.. 
The Death of Captain James Cook. Author Name: Johan Zoffany. . . The Death of Captain James Cook, 14 February 1779 is a painting by Johann Zoffany. The painting records the loss of the British explorer Captain James Cook. The painting was completed in 1794 some years after the death of Cook in 1779. Other paintings of the death of Cook were painted earlier. The Mahiole (Feathered Helmet) that was included in the painting of Cook's death by Zoffany is said to be the helmet given to Cook when he first landed in Hawaii.. The Death of Captain James Cook, 14 February 1779 is a painting by Johann Zoffany. The painting records the loss of the British explorer Captain James Cook. The painting was completed in 1794 some years after the death of Cook in 1779. Other paintings of the death of Cook were painted earlier. The Mahiole (Feathered Helmet) that was included in the painting of Cook's death by Zoffany is said to be the helmet given to Cook when he first landed in Hawaii.. 
Peel Memorial. Author Name: Edward Hodges Baily. . . The Peel Memorial is a public statue by Edward Hodges Baily, a nineteenth-century British artist best known for his sculpture of Nelson on Nelson's Column. It is located in the centre of Bury, Greater Manchester. The statue commemorates the life of Sir Robert Peel, twice UK Prime Minister and founder of the British Conservative Party, who was born in Bury.The statue is of bronze, and stands 3.5m high. Peel is depicted in contemporary dress, "addressing the House of Commons on the memorable subject of Free Trade". The Peel Memorial is a public statue by Edward Hodges Baily, a nineteenth-century British artist best known for his sculpture of Nelson on Nelson's Column. It is located in the centre of Bury, Greater Manchester. The statue commemorates the life of Sir Robert Peel, twice UK Prime Minister and founder of the British Conservative Party, who was born in Bury. The statue is of bronze, and stands 3.5m high. Peel is depicted in contemporary dress, "addressing the House of Commons on the memorable subject of Free Trade" The statue is mounted on a granite pedestal 3.66m high. The front of the pedestal bears the Peel family coat of arms and the word "Peel" in bronze capital letters. On the left and right sides are bronze bas-reliefs representing Commerce and Navigation. On the back of the pedestal is a circular bronze panel containing a quotation from one of Peel's speeches. The statue was originally surrounded by an iron railing with gas lights at each corner, although this was later removed.. 
Emblematical Print on the South Sea Scheme. Author Name: William  Hogarth. . . Emblematical Print on the South Sea Scheme (also known as The South Sea Scheme) is an early print by William Hogarth, created in 1721 and widely published from 1724. It caricatures the financial speculation, corruption and credulity that caused the South Sea Bubble in England in 1720–1.. Emblematical Print on the South Sea Scheme (also known as The South Sea Scheme) is an early print by William Hogarth, created in 1721 and widely published from 1724. It caricatures the financial speculation, corruption and credulity that caused the South Sea Bubble in England in 1720–1.. 
The Fall of New Amsterdam. Author Name: Jean Leon Gerome Ferris. . . The Fall of New Amsterdam is a historical painting by the American artist Jean Leon Gerome Ferris.. The Fall of New Amsterdam is a historical painting by the American artist Jean Leon Gerome Ferris.. 
Theodore Roosevelt, Rough Rider. Author Name: Alexander Phimister Proctor. . . Theodore Roosevelt, Rough Rider is an outdoor bronze sculpture by American artist Alexander Phimister Proctor, located in the South Park Blocks of Portland, Oregon in the United States. The equestrian statue was completed in 1922 and depicts Theodore Roosevelt as the leader of the cavalry regiment that fought during the Spanish–American War called the Rough Riders.. Theodore Roosevelt, Rough Rider is an outdoor bronze sculpture by American artist Alexander Phimister Proctor, located in the South Park Blocks of Portland, Oregon in the United States. The equestrian statue was completed in 1922 and depicts Theodore Roosevelt as the leader of the cavalry regiment that fought during the Spanish–American War called the Rough Riders.. 
Confluence. Author Name: Robert Stackhouse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Feminist_art_movement_in_the_United_States. . Confluence is a land art sculpture by artists Robert Stackhouse and Carol Mickett. The work sits on the grounds of the Indianapolis Art Center located in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. Confluence was installed as part of the Art Center's ARTSPARK initiative.. Confluence is a land art sculpture by artists Robert Stackhouse and Carol Mickett. The work sits on the grounds of the Indianapolis Art Center located in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. Confluence was installed as part of the Art Center's ARTSPARK initiative.. 
Madonna Adoring the Child with Five Angels. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Madonna Adoring the Child with Five Angels is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli, completed between 1485 and 1490. It is housed in the Baltimore Museum of Art, in Baltimore, Maryland.This work illustrates the Madonna with a young Jesus accompanied by five angels.. Madonna Adoring the Child with Five Angels is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli, completed between 1485 and 1490. It is housed in the Baltimore Museum of Art, in Baltimore, Maryland. This work illustrates the Madonna with a young Jesus accompanied by five angels.. 
Amphitrite, the wave and the sea birds. Author Name: Uthaug, Jørleif. . . Amphitrite, the wave and the sea birds (Norwegian:  Amfitrite, bølgen og havfuglene) is a 4 m (13 ft) tall stainless steel sculpture by Jørleif Uthaug located in Porsgrunn, Norway. The work consists of a nude female figure (representing Amphitrite, the wife of Neptune) and two seabirds gliding over a large geometric wave. It is one of Uthaug's most recognizable and celebrated works.. Amphitrite, the wave and the sea birds (Norwegian: Amfitrite, bølgen og havfuglene) is a 4 m (13 ft) tall stainless steel sculpture by Jørleif Uthaug located in Porsgrunn, Norway. The work consists of a nude female figure (representing Amphitrite, the wife of Neptune) and two seabirds gliding over a large geometric wave. It is one of Uthaug's most recognizable and celebrated works. The piece, which was unveiled in May 1985, is one of only a few Uthaug sculptures to include figurative elements, but it also displays many features typical of Uthaug's work, including modern style, metal construction, and themes of seafaring and the ocean. The sculpture was initially located in Nordentorget, a town square on Storgata in central Porsgrunn. In spring of 1999, it was moved behind the then-Aetat building on Strandpromenaden, a riverwalk along the eastern bank of Porsgrunn River, where it still stands today.. 
Young Virgin Auto-Sodomized by. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Young Virgin Auto-Sodomized by the Horns of Her Own Chastity is a 1954 painting by Salvador Dalí. During the 1950s, Dalí painted many of his subjects as composed of rhinoceros horns. Here, the young virgin's buttocks consist of two converging horns and two horns float beneath; "as the horns simultaneously comprise and threaten to sodomise the callipygian figure, she is effectively (auto) sodomised by her own constitution."In 1958, Dalí wrote, "Paradoxically, this painting, which has an erotic appearance, is the most chaste of all.". Young Virgin Auto-Sodomized by the Horns of Her Own Chastity is a 1954 painting by Salvador Dalí. During the 1950s, Dalí painted many of his subjects as composed of rhinoceros horns. Here, the young virgin's buttocks consist of two converging horns and two horns float beneath; "as the horns simultaneously comprise and threaten to sodomise the callipygian figure, she is effectively (auto) sodomised by her own constitution." Dalí's inspiration for the image appears to have come from Vermeer, one of a handful of artists regarded by Dalí as masters. Specifically, Vermeer's The Lacemaker seems to have been the galvanising element, with its convergent curves which focus on the subject's fingers and so to the penetration point of her needle - which as Dalí has pointed out is merely implied and not actually painted. In a stunt, Dalí set up his easel before Vermeer's original with the expressed intent of making a copy.[citation needed] The result however was this painting, which consciously uses Vermeer's focal-point arrangement, albeit to entirely different effect. The painting, formerly in the collection of The Playboy Mansion (Playboy Enterprises sold the painting in London in 2003 for 1.35 million pounds), recalls his depiction of his sister Ana María in Figure at a Window (1925), and has therefore been read by some critics as a nasty jab at his sister, punishing her for publishing a biography on Dalí that presented a quite negative point of view; it has also been interpreted as a painting of Gala, though in fact the figure is based on a photograph from a 1930s sex magazine. In 1958, Dalí wrote, "Paradoxically, this painting, which has an erotic appearance, is the most chaste of all.". 
Las Meninas. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Las Meninas ([laz meˈninas]; Spanish for The Maids of Honour) is a 1656 painting by Diego Velázquez, the leading artist of the Spanish Golden Age, in the Museo del Prado in Madrid. The work's complex and enigmatic composition raises questions about reality and illusion, and creates an uncertain relationship between the viewer and the figures depicted. Because of these complexities, Las Meninas has been one of the most widely analyzed works in Western painting.. Las Meninas ([laz meˈninas]; Spanish for The Maids of Honour) is a 1656 painting by Diego Velázquez, the leading artist of the Spanish Golden Age, in the Museo del Prado in Madrid. The work's complex and enigmatic composition raises questions about reality and illusion, and creates an uncertain relationship between the viewer and the figures depicted. Because of these complexities, Las Meninas has been one of the most widely analyzed works in Western painting. The painting shows a large room in the Royal Alcazar of Madrid during the reign of King Philip IV of Spain, and presents several figures, most identifiable from the Spanish court, captured, according to some commentators, in a particular moment as if in a snapshot. Some look out of the canvas towards the viewer, while others interact among themselves. The young Infanta Margaret Theresa is surrounded by her entourage of maids of honour, chaperone, bodyguard, two dwarfs and a dog. Just behind them, Velázquez portrays himself working at a large canvas. Velázquez looks outwards, beyond the pictorial space to where a viewer of the painting would stand. In the background there is a mirror that reflects the upper bodies of the king and queen. They appear to be placed outside the picture space in a position similar to that of the viewer, although some scholars have speculated that their image is a reflection from the painting Velázquez is shown working on. Las Meninas has long been recognised as one of the most important paintings in Western art history. The Baroque painter Luca Giordano said that it represents the "theology of painting" and in 1827 president of the R.A. Sir Thomas Lawrence described the work in a letter to his successor David Wilkie as "the true philosophy of the art". More recently, it has been described as "Velázquez's supreme achievement, a highly self-conscious, calculated demonstration of what painting could achieve, and perhaps the most searching comment ever made on the possibilities of the easel painting".. 
George Washington. Author Name: Gilbert Stuart. . . The Lansdowne portrait is an iconic oil-on-canvas portrait of George Washington, the first President of the United States. The portrait was commissioned in April 1796 by Senator William Bingham of Pennsylvania—one of the wealthiest men in the U.S. at the time—and his wife, Anne. The portrait measures 8 by 5 feet (2.44 by 1.52 m) and was given as a gift of appreciation to British Prime Minister, born William Petty FitzMaurice; the second Earl of Shelburne and subsequently the first Marquess of Lansdowne. Petty-FitzMaurice was an American sympathizer who supported independence of the colonies in Parliament. He succeeded in securing peace with America during his term as Prime Minister of Great Britain. The Lansdowne portrait was completed in the fall of that year by American artist Gilbert St. The Lansdowne portrait is an iconic oil-on-canvas portrait of George Washington, the first President of the United States. The portrait was commissioned in April 1796 by Senator William Bingham of Pennsylvania—one of the wealthiest men in the U.S. at the time—and his wife, Anne. The portrait measures 8 by 5 feet (2.44 by 1.52 m) and was given as a gift of appreciation to British Prime Minister, born William Petty FitzMaurice; the second Earl of Shelburne and subsequently the first Marquess of Lansdowne. Petty-FitzMaurice was an American sympathizer who supported independence of the colonies in Parliament. He succeeded in securing peace with America during his term as Prime Minister of Great Britain. The Lansdowne portrait was completed in the fall of that year by American artist Gilbert Stuart (who made several other portraits of George Washington, and many others of prominent American revolutionaries). The painting shows Washington at 64 years of age renouncing a third term as U.S. President. It is currently on permanent display at the National Portrait Gallery of the Smithsonian Institution. Replicas painted by Stuart are on display in the East Room of the White House, the Old State House in Hartford, Connecticut, and the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts Museum. Additional copies painted by other artists are displayed in the U.S. House Chamber and the Rayburn room of the Capitol. In 2001, The Donald W. Reynolds Foundation funded the purchase, for $20 million, of the Lansdowne portrait. The Foundation donated an additional $10 million to provide a dedicated space for it at the National Portrait Gallery where it had previously been on loan.. 
The Death of General Wolfe. Author Name: Benjamin West. . . The Death of General Wolfe is a well-known 1770 painting by Anglo-American artist Benjamin West depicting the death of British General James Wolfe during the 1759 Battle of Quebec of the Seven Years' War. It is an oil on canvas of the Enlightenment period. West made an additional and nearly identical painting of the same scene for King George III in 1771.. The Death of General Wolfe is a well-known 1770 painting by Anglo-American artist Benjamin West depicting the death of British General James Wolfe during the 1759 Battle of Quebec of the Seven Years' War. It is an oil on canvas of the Enlightenment period. West made an additional and nearly identical painting of the same scene for King George III in 1771.. 
Femme nue couchée. Author Name: Gustave Courbet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Femme nue couchée (French: Nude Reclining Woman) is an 1862 painting by French Realist painter Gustave Courbet (1819–1877). It depicts a young dark-haired woman reclining on a couch, wearing only a pair of shoes and stockings. Behind her, partly drawn red curtains reveal an overcast sky seen through a closed window. The work is likely influenced by Goya's La maja desnuda.. Femme nue couchée (French: Nude Reclining Woman) is an 1862 painting by French Realist painter Gustave Courbet (1819–1877). It depicts a young dark-haired woman reclining on a couch, wearing only a pair of shoes and stockings. Behind her, partly drawn red curtains reveal an overcast sky seen through a closed window. The work is likely influenced by Goya's La maja desnuda. The painting was initially owned by Alexandre Berthier and later by Marcell Nemes. In 1913, it was bought by the Hungarian collector Ferenc Hatvany. At one time, he painted a copy of the painting and, as a practical joke, sent it to be exhibited as the original at a Belgrade exhibition. Together with the rest of Hatvany's collection, the painting was looted from a Budapest bank vault during the 1945 Soviet conquest of the city in World War II. After it was briefly seen attached to the tarpaulin of a Soviet military vehicle on Buda Castle Hill, the painting appeared to have vanished without a trace. It surfaced again in 2000 and 2003, when it was offered for sale first to the Museum of Fine Arts and then to the Commission for Art Recovery (CAR) by a Slovak man claiming to be an antiques dealer, but who appeared to his interlocutors to be involved with the Slovak organised crime scene. The dealer produced an affidavit, judged reliable by the CAR, stating that the painting was given by Soviet soldiers to a doctor from a village near Bratislava in return for his medical treatment of a wounded soldier. An inspection of the picture's craquelure determined that the painting was indeed the original and not Hatvany's copy. After five years of negotiations, Interpol involvement and diplomatic wrangling between the US and Slovakian government, the CAR managed to acquire the painting for Hatvany's heirs in exchange for a USD 300,000 reward. It was shown to the public for the first time since the 1930s in a 2007 Courbet exposition at the Grand Palais in Paris. The painting was sold at auction on 9 November 2015 for 15.3 million U.S. dollars, four times the previous auction record for a Courbet painting.. 
Frederik VII. Author Name: Herman Wilhelm Bissen. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Danish_Golden_Age. . The equestrian statue of Frederick VII in front of Christiansborg on Slotsholmen in Copenhagen, Denmark, was modelled by Herman Wilhelm Bissen and completed posthumously by his son Vilhelm Bissen in 1873. It was created to commemorate the king's central role in Denmark's transition from absolute to constitutional monarchy.. The equestrian statue of Frederick VII in front of Christiansborg on Slotsholmen in Copenhagen, Denmark, was modelled by Herman Wilhelm Bissen and completed posthumously by his son Vilhelm Bissen in 1873. It was created to commemorate the king's central role in Denmark's transition from absolute to constitutional monarchy.. 
Hara. Author Name: Butterfield, Deborah. . . Hara is a public art work by American artist Deborah Butterfield located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture is in the form of horse; it is installed on the lawn.. Hara is a public art work by American artist Deborah Butterfield located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture is in the form of horse; it is installed on the lawn.. 
Woman with a Pearl Necklace. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . Woman with a Pearl Necklace by Johannes Vermeer is a seventeenth-century Northern European painting. Painted in oils on canvas, Johannes Vermeer portrayed a young Dutch woman, most likely of upper-class-descent, dressing herself with two yellow ribbons, pearl earrings, and a pearl necklace. As a very popular artist of the 17th century, the Dutch Golden Age, Vermeer depicted many women in similar circumstances within interior, domestic scenes. The same woman also appears in The Love Letter and A Lady Writing a Letter.. Woman with a Pearl Necklace by Johannes Vermeer is a seventeenth-century Northern European painting. Painted in oils on canvas, Johannes Vermeer portrayed a young Dutch woman, most likely of upper-class-descent, dressing herself with two yellow ribbons, pearl earrings, and a pearl necklace. As a very popular artist of the 17th century, the Dutch Golden Age, Vermeer depicted many women in similar circumstances within interior, domestic scenes. The same woman also appears in The Love Letter and A Lady Writing a Letter.. 
Noon - Rest from Work. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Copies by Vincent van Gogh form an important group of paintings executed by Vincent van Gogh between 1887 and early 1890. While at Saint-Paul asylum in Saint-Rémy-de-Provence, France, where Van Gogh admitted himself, he strived to have subjects during the cold winter months. Seeking to be reinvigorated artistically, Van Gogh did more than 30 copies of works by some of his favorite artists. About twenty-one of the works were copies after, or inspired by, Jean-François Millet. Rather than replicate, Van Gogh sought to translate the subjects and composition through his perspective, color, and technique. Spiritual meaning and emotional comfort were expressed through symbolism and color. His brother Theo van Gogh would call the pieces in the series some of his best work.. Copies by Vincent van Gogh form an important group of paintings executed by Vincent van Gogh between 1887 and early 1890. While at Saint-Paul asylum in Saint-Rémy-de-Provence, France, where Van Gogh admitted himself, he strived to have subjects during the cold winter months. Seeking to be reinvigorated artistically, Van Gogh did more than 30 copies of works by some of his favorite artists. About twenty-one of the works were copies after, or inspired by, Jean-François Millet. Rather than replicate, Van Gogh sought to translate the subjects and composition through his perspective, color, and technique. Spiritual meaning and emotional comfort were expressed through symbolism and color. His brother Theo van Gogh would call the pieces in the series some of his best work.. 
B of the Bang. Author Name: Thomas Heatherwick. . . B of the Bang was a sculpture by Thomas Heatherwick next to the City of Manchester Stadium in Manchester, England, which was commissioned to mark the 2002 Commonwealth Games; it was one of the tallest structures in Manchester and the tallest sculpture in the UK until the completion of Aspire in 2008. It was taller and leaned at a greater angle than the Leaning Tower of Pisa. The sculpture took its name from a quotation of British sprinter Linford Christie, in which he said that he started his races not merely at the "bang" of the starting pistol, but at "the B of the Bang".. B of the Bang was a sculpture by Thomas Heatherwick next to the City of Manchester Stadium in Manchester, England, which was commissioned to mark the 2002 Commonwealth Games; it was one of the tallest structures in Manchester and the tallest sculpture in the UK until the completion of Aspire in 2008. It was taller and leaned at a greater angle than the Leaning Tower of Pisa. The sculpture took its name from a quotation of British sprinter Linford Christie, in which he said that he started his races not merely at the "bang" of the starting pistol, but at "the B of the Bang". The sculpture was commissioned in 2003; construction overran and the official unveiling was delayed until 12 January 2005. Six days before the launch, the sculpture suffered the first of three visible structural problems as the tip of one of the spikes detached and fell to the ground. Legal action started a year later, resulting in an out-of-court settlement totalling £1.7 million. In February 2009, Manchester City Council announced that the sculpture would be dismantled and placed in storage. Despite the promise of storage and potential reassembly, the core and legs of the sculpture were cut apart during removal. The core was sold for scrap in July 2012, while the 180 spikes remain in storage.. 
Map. Author Name: Jasper Johns. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . Map is a 1961 oil-on-canvas painting by Jasper Johns. It represents the overall proportions and shapes of the states of the United States and parts of Mexico and Canada, although executed with a more "energetic application of paint" than found in cartography. The names of the states and ocean areas are stencilled.. Map is a 1961 oil-on-canvas painting by Jasper Johns. It represents the overall proportions and shapes of the states of the United States and parts of Mexico and Canada, although executed with a more "energetic application of paint" than found in cartography. The names of the states and ocean areas are stencilled. The painting measures 198.2 centimetres (78.0 in) by 314.7 centimetres (123.9 in). Johns was inspired by a gift from Robert Rauschenberg of some mimeographed outline maps of US states, of the sort that can be colored in by schoolchildren. Johns was attracted to an image that is ubiquitous but "seen and not looked at, not examined", effectively an found object. He copied the outlines to a large canvas, to which he added bright splashes of red, yellow, and blue, sometimes mixed, with accents of black and white. His rough brushwork resembles an Abstract Expressionist style or the late works of Cézanne. Although the outlines of the states are recognisable, the colors do not always respect state borders, perhaps suggesting the blurring of boundaries and homogenisation of post-war American society, reinforced by the mass-produced effect of the stencilled names. It has been suggested that the painting may be a visual pun, as Johns "deliberately put American painting on the map" in the 1950s. Johns considered that he was painting a map, not making a painting of a map. The painting was donated by Mr. and Mrs. Robert C. Scull to the Museum of Modern Art in New York City. Johns continued to make map paintings through the 1960s, including gray versions in 1962 and 1963, a white map in 1965, and a monumental mural 33 feet (10 m) wide and 15 feet (4.6 m) high for Expo 67 in Montreal. Other map paintings by Johns employ encaustic in place of oil paint. 
The City Rises. Author Name: Umberto Boccioni. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Futurism. . The City Rises (La città che sale) (1910) is a painting by the Italian painter Umberto Boccioni. It was his first major Futurist work.. The City Rises (La città che sale) (1910) is a painting by the Italian painter Umberto Boccioni. It was his first major Futurist work.. 
Marriage à-la-mode: 3. The Inspection. Author Name: William  Hogarth. . . The Inspection is the third canvas in the series of six satirical paintings known as Marriage à-la-mode painted by William Hogarth.The viscount, suffering from syphilis, makes a visit to a French doctor.. The Inspection is the third canvas in the series of six satirical paintings known as Marriage à-la-mode painted by William Hogarth. The viscount, suffering from syphilis, makes a visit to a French doctor.. 
Portrait of a Young Englishman. Author Name: Titian. . . Portrait of a Young Englishman (Portrait of a Young Man with Grey Eyes) is a 1540–45 portrait by Titian, now held in the Palazzo Pitti. Its subject is unidentified, but may be Henry Howard, Ottavio Farnese or Ippolito Rominaldi.. Portrait of a Young Englishman (Portrait of a Young Man with Grey Eyes) is a 1540–45 portrait by Titian, now held in the Palazzo Pitti. Its subject is unidentified, but may be Henry Howard, Ottavio Farnese or Ippolito Rominaldi.. 
In the Conservatory. Author Name: Édouard Manet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . In the Conservatory (French: Dans la serre) is an 1879 oil painting by Édouard Manet in the Alte Nationalgalerie, Berlin. The setting is a conservatory at 70 Rue d'Amsterdam in Paris, then owned by painter Otto Rosen and which Manet used as a studio for nine months in 1878 and 1879. At first glance, we see a double portrait of a fashionable and attractive couple of some social rank. They are Manet's friends, the Guillemets, who owned a clothing shop. Their married status is conveyed by their rings, and the proximity of their hands is the nearest hint of intimacy. The woman becomes the focus of the portrait, however, being more prominently placed and colourfully dressed. Their physical separation—with the husband Jules slouching in dark clothing behind the bench—and their lack of engagement. In the Conservatory (French: Dans la serre) is an 1879 oil painting by Édouard Manet in the Alte Nationalgalerie, Berlin. The setting is a conservatory at 70 Rue d'Amsterdam in Paris, then owned by painter Otto Rosen and which Manet used as a studio for nine months in 1878 and 1879. At first glance, we see a double portrait of a fashionable and attractive couple of some social rank. They are Manet's friends, the Guillemets, who owned a clothing shop. Their married status is conveyed by their rings, and the proximity of their hands is the nearest hint of intimacy. The woman becomes the focus of the portrait, however, being more prominently placed and colourfully dressed. Their physical separation—with the husband Jules slouching in dark clothing behind the bench—and their lack of engagement with the viewer create a sense of detachment, which has been the primary theme in modern criticism of the work. The painting was exhibited in the 1879 Paris Salon and was regarded as surprisingly conservative for Manet. Jules-Antoine Castagnary wrote, with tongue in cheek, "But what is this? Face and hands more carefully drawn than usual: is Manet making concessions to the public?"—and said it portrayed "the elegance of fashionable life". Yet the portrait is not entirely conventional—the sense of dislocation carries to the background. Joris-Karl Huysmans called the subjects "marvelously detached from the envelope of green surrounding them". The interplay of lines formally defines the work. The woman has an erect posture echoed by the vertical slats of the bench, and the man, though leaning forward, does not break that vertical. The bench continues off the right side, reinforcing the horizontal and the separation of foreground and background. The diagonal pleats on the woman's dress provide some relief from the linearity of the composition. Jean-Baptiste Faure bought In the Conservatory from Manet, along with three other paintings, for the "paltry sum" of 11,000 francs. It was taken from the Gemäldegalerie in Berlin during the Nazi plunder but recovered in 1945 in a German salt mine stashed with a vast amount of art and other valuables. A photograph (below) in the U.S. National Archives and Records Administration shows soldiers in the mine posing with this particular work.. 
Vahine no te vi. Author Name: Paul Gauguin. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Vahine no te vi (English: Woman of the Mango) is an 1892 painting by Paul Gauguin, currently in the collection of the Baltimore Museum of Art. It is one of many works of modern art purchased by the Cone sisters. It is one of some seventy paintings he produced during his first visit to Tahiti, and is amongst the earliest of these.. Vahine no te vi (English: Woman of the Mango) is an 1892 painting by Paul Gauguin, currently in the collection of the Baltimore Museum of Art. It is one of many works of modern art purchased by the Cone sisters. It is one of some seventy paintings he produced during his first visit to Tahiti, and is amongst the earliest of these.. 
Portrait of Pier Maria Rossi di San Secondo. Author Name: Parmigianino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . Portrait of Pier Maria Rossi di San Secondo is a painting by the Italian Mannerist artist Parmigianino, executed around 1535–1539 and housed in the Museo del Prado, Madrid, Spain. The subject was Count of San Secondo, and the painting forms a pair with a group portrait of his Countess and their children, Portrait of Camilla Gonzaga and Her Three Sons, although the latter is not unanimously attributed to Parmigianino.. Portrait of Pier Maria Rossi di San Secondo is a painting by the Italian Mannerist artist Parmigianino, executed around 1535–1539 and housed in the Museo del Prado, Madrid, Spain. The subject was Count of San Secondo, and the painting forms a pair with a group portrait of his Countess and their children, Portrait of Camilla Gonzaga and Her Three Sons, although the latter is not unanimously attributed to Parmigianino.. 
The Lament for Icarus. Author Name: Herbert James Draper. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Classicism. . The Lament for Icarus is a painting by Herbert James Draper, showing dead Icarus, surrounded by lamenting nymphs. The wings of Icarus are based on the bird-of-paradise pattern. In 1898 the painting was bought from the Royal Academy exhibition through The Chantrey Bequest, a public fund for purchasing modern art bequeathed by Sir Francis Leggatt Chantrey, R.A.. The Lament for Icarus was subsequently awarded the gold medal at the Exposition Universelle of 1900 in Paris.. The Lament for Icarus is a painting by Herbert James Draper, showing dead Icarus, surrounded by lamenting nymphs. The wings of Icarus are based on the bird-of-paradise pattern. In 1898 the painting was bought from the Royal Academy exhibition through The Chantrey Bequest, a public fund for purchasing modern art bequeathed by Sir Francis Leggatt Chantrey, R.A.. The Lament for Icarus was subsequently awarded the gold medal at the Exposition Universelle of 1900 in Paris. According to Dr. Justine Hopkins, Draper identifies Icarus "with the other heroes of the Pre-Raphaelites and symbolists, who, like James Dean half a century later, manage to live fast, die young and leave a beautiful corpse".. 
A Slice of Reality. Author Name: Richard Wilson. . . A Slice of Reality is a work of modern art by Richard Wilson sitting by (and commissioned for) the Millennium Dome on the north-western bank of the Greenwich Peninsula. It consists of a 9-metre (30 ft) sliced vertical section through the former 800-ton 60-metre (200 ft) sand dredger Arco Trent and exposes portions of the former living quarters of the vessel to the elements (such as a visible pool table in the lower decks).. A Slice of Reality is a work of modern art by Richard Wilson sitting by (and commissioned for) the Millennium Dome on the north-western bank of the Greenwich Peninsula. It consists of a 9-metre (30 ft) sliced vertical section through the former 800-ton 60-metre (200 ft) sand dredger Arco Trent and exposes portions of the former living quarters of the vessel to the elements (such as a visible pool table in the lower decks).. 
Guerrillero Heroico. Author Name: Alberto Korda. . . Guerrillero Heroico (English: "Heroic Guerrilla Fighter") is an iconic photograph of Marxist revolutionary Che Guevara taken by Alberto Korda. It was captured on March 5, 1960, in Havana, Cuba, at a memorial service for victims of the La Coubre explosion. By the end of the 1960s, the image, in conjunction with Guevara's subsequent actions and eventual execution, helped solidify the charismatic and controversial leader as a cultural icon. Korda has said that at the moment he shot the picture, he was drawn to Guevara's facial expression, which showed "absolute implacability" as well as anger and pain. Years later, Korda would say that the photo showed Che's firm and stoic character. Guevara was 31 years old at the time the photo was taken.. Guerrillero Heroico (English: "Heroic Guerrilla Fighter") is an iconic photograph of Marxist revolutionary Che Guevara taken by Alberto Korda. It was captured on March 5, 1960, in Havana, Cuba, at a memorial service for victims of the La Coubre explosion. By the end of the 1960s, the image, in conjunction with Guevara's subsequent actions and eventual execution, helped solidify the charismatic and controversial leader as a cultural icon. Korda has said that at the moment he shot the picture, he was drawn to Guevara's facial expression, which showed "absolute implacability" as well as anger and pain. Years later, Korda would say that the photo showed Che's firm and stoic character. Guevara was 31 years old at the time the photo was taken. Emphasizing the image's ubiquitous nature and wide appeal, the Maryland Institute College of Art called the picture a symbol of the 20th century and the world's most famous photo. Versions of it have been painted, printed, digitized, embroidered, tattooed, silk-screened, sculpted or sketched on nearly every surface imaginable, leading the Victoria and Albert Museum to say that the photo has been reproduced more than any other image in photography. Jonathan Green, director of the UCR/California Museum of Photography, has speculated that "Korda's image has worked its way into languages around the world. It has become an alpha-numeric symbol, a hieroglyph, an instant symbol. It mysteriously reappears whenever there's a conflict. There isn’t anything else in history that serves in this way". The history and contemporary global impact of the image is the basis for the 2008 documentary Chevolution, directed by Trisha Ziff, along with the 2009 book Che's Afterlife: The Legacy of an Image by Michael Casey.. 
Laocoön. Author Name: El Greco. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . The Laocoön is an oil painting created between 1610 and 1614 by renowned Greek artist and Spanish Renaissance master Doménikos Theotokópoulos, known as El Greco ("The Greek"). It is part of a collection at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C... The Laocoön is an oil painting created between 1610 and 1614 by renowned Greek artist and Spanish Renaissance master Doménikos Theotokópoulos, known as El Greco ("The Greek"). It is part of a collection at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C.. The painting depicts the Greek and Roman mythological story of the deaths of Laocoön, a Trojan priest of Poseidon, and his two sons Antiphantes and Thymbraeus. Laocoön and his sons were strangled by sea serpents, a punishment sent by the gods after Laocoön attempted to warn his countrymen about the Trojan horse. Although inspired by the recently discovered monumental Hellenistic sculpture Laocoön and His Sons in Rome, Laocoön is a product of Mannerism, an artistic movement originating in Italy during the 16th century that countered the artistic ideals of the Renaissance. El Greco’s painting deliberately breaks away from the balance and harmony of Renaissance art with its strong emotional atmosphere and distorted figures.. 
Independência ou Morte. Author Name: Americo, Pedro. . . The painting Independence or Death (Independência ou Morte in Portuguese), also known as the Cry of Ipiranga (Grito do Ipiranga in the original), is the main artwork representing the proclamation of Brazilian independence.. The painting Independence or Death (Independência ou Morte in Portuguese), also known as the Cry of Ipiranga (Grito do Ipiranga in the original), is the main artwork representing the proclamation of Brazilian independence.. 
Portrait of Seymour H. Knox. Author Name: Andy Warhol. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Portrait of Seymour H. Knox is a 1985 portrait by Andy Warhol of Seymour H. Knox II. It was donated by the families of his two sons, Mr. and Mrs. Seymour H. Knox III and Mrs. and Mrs. Northrup R. Knox, to the Albright-Knox Art Gallery in honor of Seymour H. Knox II for his 60 year contribution as a member of the Buffalo Fine Arts Academy.. Portrait of Seymour H. Knox is a 1985 portrait by Andy Warhol of Seymour H. Knox II. It was donated by the families of his two sons, Mr. and Mrs. Seymour H. Knox III and Mrs. and Mrs. Northrup R. Knox, to the Albright-Knox Art Gallery in honor of Seymour H. Knox II for his 60 year contribution as a member of the Buffalo Fine Arts Academy. This is one of a number of celebrity portraits that Warhol produced in this duplicative multicolored style. Many were produced in his early 1960s silkscreen period. Some of the major celebrity portraits of this style include those of Elvis Presley, Elizabeth Taylor, Marilyn Monroe, Jacqueline Kennedy, Mao Zedong and Andy Warhol himself. He also produced similar style works of several other minor celebrities.. 
Kumo. Author Name: Isaac Witkin. . . Kumo is a public art work by artist Isaac Witkin located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture is an abstract form made of Corten steel curved shapes; it is installed on the lawn.. Kumo is a public art work by artist Isaac Witkin located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture is an abstract form made of Corten steel curved shapes; it is installed on the lawn.. 
High Street, Oxford. Author Name: J. M. W. Turner. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . High Street, Oxford is an oil painting by J. M. W. Turner that was exhibited in 1810.The painting shows a view looking west along the High Street, a major street in central Oxford, England, with University College on the left, All Souls College on the right, and the spires of All Saints Church (now the library of Lincoln College, centre) and St Mary's Church (the University church, centre right). In the distance is the tower of St Martin's Church (marking the centre of Oxford, now known as Carfax Tower since the rest of the church has been demolished).. High Street, Oxford is an oil painting by J. M. W. Turner that was exhibited in 1810. The painting shows a view looking west along the High Street, a major street in central Oxford, England, with University College on the left, All Souls College on the right, and the spires of All Saints Church (now the library of Lincoln College, centre) and St Mary's Church (the University church, centre right). In the distance is the tower of St Martin's Church (marking the centre of Oxford, now known as Carfax Tower since the rest of the church has been demolished). Originally, the painting was commissioned by James Wyatt. He intended to have it engraved and sold as a print at his shop, located at 115 High Street in Oxford. The painting is now exhibited at the Ashmolean Museum in Oxford. In 2015, there was a campaign to raise money for the purchase of the picture (estimated value £3.5 million) since previously it was on long-term loan to the museum from a private collection since 1997. It was left to the nation in lieu of death duties. The painting was acquired using grants of £550,000 from the UK Heritage Lottery Fund, £220,000 from the UK Art Fund, and £30,000 from the Friends and Patrons of the Ashmolean Museum.. 
Adam and Eve. Author Name: Lucas Cranach the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/German_Renaissance. . Adam and Eve is a double painting by German Renaissance master Lucas Cranach the Elder, dating from 1528, now housed in The Art Institute of Chicago, USA.The two biblical ancestors are portrayed, in two different panels, on a dark background, standing on a barely visible ground. Both hold two small branches which cover their sexual organs. Eve holds the traditional apple, with the snake coming to her from above from the tree of life. Adam is shown scratching the right crown part of his scalp.. Adam and Eve is a double painting by German Renaissance master Lucas Cranach the Elder, dating from 1528, now housed in The Art Institute of Chicago, USA. The two biblical ancestors are portrayed, in two different panels, on a dark background, standing on a barely visible ground. Both hold two small branches which cover their sexual organs. Eve holds the traditional apple, with the snake coming to her from above from the tree of life. Adam is shown scratching the right crown part of his scalp.. 
Rêve de printemps. Author Name: William-Adolphe Bouguereau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Rêve de printemps (en. Dream of Spring) is a painting by William-Adolphe Bouguereau in the year 1901. The painting is an allegory of spring, it shows a young woman sitting in a forest surrounded by three small amores who crown her with a wreath of spring flowers as déesse du printemps.. Rêve de printemps (en. Dream of Spring) is a painting by William-Adolphe Bouguereau in the year 1901. The painting is an allegory of spring, it shows a young woman sitting in a forest surrounded by three small amores who crown her with a wreath of spring flowers as déesse du printemps.. 
Plastic Flamingo. Author Name: Don Featherstone. . . Pink plastic flamingos are one of the most famous lawn ornaments in the United States, along with the garden gnome.. Pink plastic flamingos are one of the most famous lawn ornaments in the United States, along with the garden gnome.. 
The Painter of Sunflowers. Author Name: Paul Gauguin. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . The Painter of Sunflowers (in French: Le Peintre de Tournesols) is a portrait of Vincent van Gogh by Paul Gauguin in December 1888.. The Painter of Sunflowers (in French: Le Peintre de Tournesols) is a portrait of Vincent van Gogh by Paul Gauguin in December 1888.. 
The Glorification of the Virgin. Author Name: Geertgen tot Sint Jans. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . The Glorification of the Virgin (Dutch: De verheerlijking van Maria) is a 15th-century painting attributed to Geertgen tot Sint Jans. The painting was made in circa 1490–1495 and was originally part of a diptych. It shows the Virgin Mary who is holding Jesus and who is surrounded by three rings of angels. The work is in the collection of Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen in Rotterdam, Netherlands.. The Glorification of the Virgin (Dutch: De verheerlijking van Maria) is a 15th-century painting attributed to Geertgen tot Sint Jans. The painting was made in circa 1490–1495 and was originally part of a diptych. It shows the Virgin Mary who is holding Jesus and who is surrounded by three rings of angels. The work is in the collection of Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen in Rotterdam, Netherlands.. 
Indian Widow. Author Name: Joseph Wright. . . Indian Widow is a painting by Joseph Wright of Derby, completed in late 1783 or early 1784 and first shown in his solo exhibition in London in 1785. The painting is now on display at Derby Museum and Art Gallery, Derby, England.. Indian Widow is a painting by Joseph Wright of Derby, completed in late 1783 or early 1784 and first shown in his solo exhibition in London in 1785. The painting is now on display at Derby Museum and Art Gallery, Derby, England.. 
Madonna of the Candelabra. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Madonna of the Candelabra is a Madonna painting by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael, dating to about 1513 and is in the collection of the Walters Art Museum in Baltimore.Painted during his Roman period, this tondo Madonna of the Virgin and Child employs a rare motif of flanking candelabra that was derived from representations of ancient Roman emperors. Through this reference to the rulers of antiquity, Raphael alludes to Christ's and Mary's roles as the king and queen of Heaven. Raphael was famed for his graceful style. which combined the study of classical sculpture and nature. The chiaroscuro effects (modeling in light and shade) and gentle coloring give the figures a soft, delicate appearance. The painting relies heavily on the participation of Raphael's workshop, and the two . The Madonna of the Candelabra is a Madonna painting by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael, dating to about 1513 and is in the collection of the Walters Art Museum in Baltimore. Painted during his Roman period, this tondo Madonna of the Virgin and Child employs a rare motif of flanking candelabra that was derived from representations of ancient Roman emperors. Through this reference to the rulers of antiquity, Raphael alludes to Christ's and Mary's roles as the king and queen of Heaven. Raphael was famed for his graceful style. which combined the study of classical sculpture and nature. The chiaroscuro effects (modeling in light and shade) and gentle coloring give the figures a soft, delicate appearance. The painting relies heavily on the participation of Raphael's workshop, and the two angels certainly were done by his assistants. This was the first Madonna painted by Raphael to enter a North American collection. It was purchased by Henry Walters in 1901. The central portion of the painting was issued as the traditional holiday first class Christmas stamp for 2011 by the United States Postal Service. The stamp was released on October 13, 2011 in New York, New York.. 
Paysage bord du Seine. Author Name: Pierre-Auguste Renoir. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Paysage bord du Seine or Paysage bords de Seine (On the Shore of the Seine or Landscape on the Banks of the Seine) is an 1879 oil painting by Pierre-Auguste Renoir. It was stolen in 1951 from the Baltimore Museum of Art and resurfaced in 2012.. Paysage bord du Seine or Paysage bords de Seine (On the Shore of the Seine or Landscape on the Banks of the Seine) is an 1879 oil painting by Pierre-Auguste Renoir. It was stolen in 1951 from the Baltimore Museum of Art and resurfaced in 2012.. 
The Concert Singer. Author Name: Thomas Eakins. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Concert Singer is a painting by Thomas Eakins (1844–1916), depicting the singer Weda Cook (1867–1937). The work, commenced in 1890 and completed in 1892, was Eakins's first full-length portrait of a woman. It is now in the Philadelphia Museum of Art.The Concert Singer was one of a series of portraits Eakins painted of Philadelphia natives who were prominent in science and culture, with the intent of producing major showpieces for exhibition. The painting exemplifies Eakins's desire to truthfully record visual appearances with "historical value.". The Concert Singer is a painting by Thomas Eakins (1844–1916), depicting the singer Weda Cook (1867–1937). The work, commenced in 1890 and completed in 1892, was Eakins's first full-length portrait of a woman. It is now in the Philadelphia Museum of Art. The Concert Singer was one of a series of portraits Eakins painted of Philadelphia natives who were prominent in science and culture, with the intent of producing major showpieces for exhibition. The painting exemplifies Eakins's desire to truthfully record visual appearances with "historical value." Eakins drew, painted, or sculpted at least twenty-two works that dealt with the visual aspects of music; at one point, this included "eleven straight portraits of musicians and musicologists", of which The Concert Singer has been called "the finest".. 
The Great God Pan. Author Name: George Grey Barnard. . . The Great God Pan is an outdoor bronze sculpture of Pan by American artist George Grey Barnard, located on the Columbia University campus in Manhattan, New York. Charles Follen McKim installed the sculpture as a functional fountain in the northeast corner of the campus in 1907. It is now located across Lewisohn Hall.. The Great God Pan is an outdoor bronze sculpture of Pan by American artist George Grey Barnard, located on the Columbia University campus in Manhattan, New York. Charles Follen McKim installed the sculpture as a functional fountain in the northeast corner of the campus in 1907. It is now located across Lewisohn Hall.. 
The Palace of Memories. Author Name: René Magritte. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Surrealism. . The Palace of Memories (French: Le palais des souvenirs) is a painting in oil on canvas, 46.2 × 38.2 cm, created in 1939 by Belgian surrealist artist René Magritte. It is held in a private collection.In The Palace of Memories, René Magritte plunges the viewer into a scene of infinite mystery: underneath and beyond a theatre curtain is a vast, rocky landscape of crags stretching into the distance. Looking like a crater filled with lava and dominating that vista is a rock formation that resembles Magritte’s images of chopped trees which would emerge in 1951 in The Work of Alexander. This introduces the theme of petrification that would recur in Magritte’s art, the notion of the transformation between the elements as seen in his 1936 work, Le précurseur, in which a mountain range resembles an. The Palace of Memories (French: Le palais des souvenirs) is a painting in oil on canvas, 46.2 × 38.2 cm, created in 1939 by Belgian surrealist artist René Magritte. It is held in a private collection. In The Palace of Memories, René Magritte plunges the viewer into a scene of infinite mystery: underneath and beyond a theatre curtain is a vast, rocky landscape of crags stretching into the distance. Looking like a crater filled with lava and dominating that vista is a rock formation that resembles Magritte’s images of chopped trees which would emerge in 1951 in The Work of Alexander. This introduces the theme of petrification that would recur in Magritte’s art, the notion of the transformation between the elements as seen in his 1936 work, Le précurseur, in which a mountain range resembles an eagle. In The Palace of Memories, the pool of red within the crater adds another dimension to this switch between animal, vegetable and mineral. Meanwhile, against the curtain itself, hovering in the foreground, is a bunch of blue flowers which reminds us of some heraldic motif. This picture was formerly owned by Simon Harcourt-Smith, a diplomat and author whose father, Sir Cecil, had been the first director of the Victoria and Albert Museum, London, as well as a key advisor to the Royal Collection. The Palace of Memories was painted in 1939, and as such appears to be the first of a string of works in which Magritte explored the theme of the landscape behind a theatre curtain. Indeed, this marked a new entry of the curtain into Magritte’s compositions: formerly, curtains tended to be shown either in the context of a window or as stand-alone objects in a landscape. This had been the case in The Poetic World, a work from the 1920s which Magritte had revisited, creating a new version for Edward James in 1937. Perhaps this had brought the theme of the curtain back to Magritte’s mind. Certainly, in 1940, he would return to the stage curtain device in The Beauty of Night, in which a landscape reminiscent of the flatter parts of Belgium or of Holland is shown, allowing the sky to dominate the composition. Another oil from the same year, Le spectacle de la nature, shows another country scene beyond the curtain: two trees in a lush, verdant prairie; that picture is now in the Pinakothek der Moderne, Munich, where it forms part of the Theo Wormland Collection. In that picture, in place of the flowers in The Palace of Memories floats a solitary leaf. The fact that these pictures were signed by the artist in 1940 implies that The Palace of Memories, which was dated ‘1939’, may have been painted towards the end of that year. This was a momentous turning point in the life of Magritte and in the history of much of the world as well, as it marked the beginning of the Second World War. The Palace of Memories may thus date from after the declaration of war, yet before the invasion of Belgium and its subsequent Occupation, which began in May the following year. Perhaps, then, The Palace of Memories was painted against the backdrop of the drôle de guerre, the ‘Phoney War’, when little military action was taking place yet many of the nations of Europe were clearly pitted against each other. The Second World War would come to inspire Magritte to negotiate new means of representing his Surreal vision: he sought to respond to the conflict in a number of ways, often expunging any overbearing sense of the psychological oppression that was so naturally caused by it. In The Palace of Memories, by contrast, the sombre tone of the landscape underneath the curtain may hint at his own anxieties. At the same time, the theatrical posturing of the various nations may have helped to inspire the theatrical theme. In The Palace of Memories, the fact that the curtain implies some infinite theatre hints at a new way of looking at life itself. In this way, it chimes with Magritte’s constant quest to bring about an epiphany in his viewers, to point them towards a new understanding of the magical and mysterious qualities of the world around us. Everything, Magritte appears to be saying, is spectacle. Everything is illusion. Magritte’s use of the curtain in this picture invoked a device that had been employed by a number of the Old Masters as a trompe-l'oeil way of drawing the viewer into the composition, pointing to the artifice of the scene, and also showcasing their own ability to paint something as lifelike as the drapery hanging in front of a picture; this was the case, for example, in several of the pictures of Johannes Vermeer. Magritte’s play with the nature of the picture surface was given great scope by his use of similar devices, be it in the bunched stage curtain of The Palace of Memories, the velvet backdrop of The Plagiarism, pierced by the landscape-silhouette of the flowers dominating the composition, or even the numerous images of naked women next to long curtains such as La chambre de la fée and The Magnet. In those pictures, Magritte reintroduced the theme of the nude which he had explored in his earlier painting, Black Magic, but added this curtain element, playing with the various implied textures of the elements depicted. Magritte appears to have used the curtain device again and again after introducing it in The Palace of Memories. In it, he had found a means of adding a level of dialogue concerning the entire nature of art, of representation and of painting. By creating a perspectival landscape of seemingly colossal proportions in the background, with the curtain in the foreground, Magritte is deliberately bringing our attention to the entire process of imitation that underpins the act of painting itself. He is pointing to the artifice of his own profession, celebrating it. And the flowers floating in the foreground add a garnish, a flash of flair, that both emphasises and finalises this process of revelation.. 
The Butcher Boys. Author Name: Jane Alexander. . . Butcher Boys (1985/86) is a sculpture made by South African artist Jane Alexander of three life size, oil painted plaster figures with animal horn and bone details, seated on a bench. The work formed part of her MAFA submission (University of the Witwatersrand) and was first exhibited at the Market Theatre Gallery in Johannesburg in 1986. It was acquired by the South African National Gallery in 1991. The work was a response to the state of emergency in South Africa at the time.. Butcher Boys (1985/86) is a sculpture made by South African artist Jane Alexander of three life size, oil painted plaster figures with animal horn and bone details, seated on a bench. The work formed part of her MAFA submission (University of the Witwatersrand) and was first exhibited at the Market Theatre Gallery in Johannesburg in 1986. It was acquired by the South African National Gallery in 1991. The work was a response to the state of emergency in South Africa at the time. "...Jane Alexander arrived at the humanimal during a crisis period of uncertainty and transition in South Africa - the state of emergency declared in 1985, when she created Butcher Boys as part of her graduate studies, was renewed each year up to 1990 - indicates the farsighted choices by which her sculptural practice has revived the grotesque as a counterdiscourse of our times. Adapting the hybridity principle to produce original insights into the postcolonial condition, moreover, her practice - like a mutant strand of art historical DNA that claims multiple parentage - demonstrates how fitting the grotesque is as a means of questioning once-familiar notions of "race." The work consists of three lifesize humanoid beasts with powdery skin, black eyes, broken horns, and no mouths sitting on a bench. The beasts are devoid of their outside senses - their ears are nothing more than deep gorges in their heads and their mouths are missing, appearing to be covered with thick roughened skin. Brett Bailey's Plays of Miracle and Wonder was published with a cover photograph showing three men posed after Jane Alexander's Butcher Boys sculpture.. 
Affe mit Schädel. Author Name: Hugo Rheinhold. . . The Affe mit Schädel ("ape with skull"), is a famous work by the late-19th-century German sculptor Hugo Rheinhold. The statuette is otherwise known as the “Affe, einen Schädel betrachtend” (monkey viewing or contemplating a skull). It was first exhibited in 1893 at the Große Berliner Kunstaustellung (Great Berlin Art Exhibition).. The Affe mit Schädel ("ape with skull"), is a famous work by the late-19th-century German sculptor Hugo Rheinhold. The statuette is otherwise known as the “Affe, einen Schädel betrachtend” (monkey viewing or contemplating a skull). It was first exhibited in 1893 at the Große Berliner Kunstaustellung (Great Berlin Art Exhibition).. 
A Man with a Quilted Sleeve. Author Name: Titian. . . A Man with a Quilted Sleeve is a c. 1509 painting by Titian now held at the National Gallery, London.. A Man with a Quilted Sleeve is a c. 1509 painting by Titian now held at the National Gallery, London.. 
The Dort. Author Name: J. M. W. Turner. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . The Dort, or Dort or Dordrecht: The Dort packet-boat from Rotterdam becalmed is an 1818 painting by J M W Turner, based on drawings made by him in mid September 1817. It shows a view of the harbor of Dordrecht. It is the finest example of the influence of Dutch marine painting on Turner's work.It was purchased by Walter Fawkes for 500 guineas at the request of his son, and hung in the drawing room at Farnley Hall until it was bought by Paul Mellon in 1966. It was then donated to the Yale Center for British Art upon the founding of the center.. The Dort, or Dort or Dordrecht: The Dort packet-boat from Rotterdam becalmed is an 1818 painting by J M W Turner, based on drawings made by him in mid September 1817. It shows a view of the harbor of Dordrecht. It is the finest example of the influence of Dutch marine painting on Turner's work. It was exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1818, where it was described by the Morning Chronicle as “one of the most magnificent pictures ever exhibited, and does honour to the age”. In 1832, John Constable wrote of the picture, "I remember most of Turner's early works; amongst them one of singular intricacy and beauty; it was a canal with numerous boats making thousands of beautiful shapes, and I think the most complete work of a genius I ever saw". It was purchased by Walter Fawkes for 500 guineas at the request of his son, and hung in the drawing room at Farnley Hall until it was bought by Paul Mellon in 1966. It was then donated to the Yale Center for British Art upon the founding of the center.. 
The Actor. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The Actor (L'acteur) is a 1904 painting by Spanish painter Pablo Picasso, one of the most recognized figures in 20th-century art.. The Actor (L'acteur) is a 1904 painting by Spanish painter Pablo Picasso, one of the most recognized figures in 20th-century art.. 
Danseuse. Author Name: Joseph Csaky. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_art. . Danseuse, also known as Femme à l'éventail, or Femme à la cruche, is an early Cubist sculpture created in 1912 by the Hungarian avant-garde sculptor Joseph Csaky (1888–1971). This black and white photograph from the Csaky family archives shows a frontal view of the original 1912 plaster. Danseuse was exhibited in Paris at the 1912 Salon d'Automne (n. 405), an exhibition that provoked a succès de scandale and resulted in a xenophobic and anti-modernist quarrel in the French National Assembly. The sculpture was then exhibited at the 1914 Salon des Indépendants entitled Femme à l'éventail (n. 813); and at Galerie Moos, Geneva, 1920, entitled Femme à la cruche.. Danseuse, also known as Femme à l'éventail, or Femme à la cruche, is an early Cubist sculpture created in 1912 by the Hungarian avant-garde sculptor Joseph Csaky (1888–1971). This black and white photograph from the Csaky family archives shows a frontal view of the original 1912 plaster. Danseuse was exhibited in Paris at the 1912 Salon d'Automne (n. 405), an exhibition that provoked a succès de scandale and resulted in a xenophobic and anti-modernist quarrel in the French National Assembly. The sculpture was then exhibited at the 1914 Salon des Indépendants entitled Femme à l'éventail (n. 813); and at Galerie Moos, Geneva, 1920, entitled Femme à la cruche.. 
Odalisque with Raised Arms. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . Odalisque with Raised Arms is a painting by Henri Matisse from 1923. The full title is Odalisque assise aux bras levés, fauteuil rayé vert, which translates as "Odalisque with raised arms sitting on a green striped armchair". It is located in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C, which acquired it in 1963 from the art collector Chester Dale.. Odalisque with Raised Arms is a painting by Henri Matisse from 1923. The full title is Odalisque assise aux bras levés, fauteuil rayé vert, which translates as "Odalisque with raised arms sitting on a green striped armchair". It is located in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C, which acquired it in 1963 from the art collector Chester Dale. The subject is Henriette Darricarrière, who was a ballet dancer at Studios de la Victorine, a cinematic studio founded in 1919 now called Studios Riviera.fr:Studios Riviera A fellow painter, she also played the violin and the piano. The transparent pants she is wearing are part of a harem costume.. 
Tau. Author Name: Tony Smith. . . Tau is a public artwork by American artist Tony Smith, located on the urban campus of Hunter College, in New York City, New York, United State of America. Fascinated by mathematics, biology and crystals, Smith designed Tau with geometry at its root.. Tau is a public artwork by American artist Tony Smith, located on the urban campus of Hunter College, in New York City, New York, United State of America. Fascinated by mathematics, biology and crystals, Smith designed Tau with geometry at its root.. 
Wendell Willkie. Author Name: Fjelde, Paul. . . Wendell Willkie plaque is a public sculpture at the Indiana Statehouse in Indianapolis, Indiana and was designed by American sculptor and educator Paul Fjelde. This bronze plaque honors Wendell L. Willkie (1892–1944) who was the Republican Party nominee for the U.S. presidency in 1940. The plaque was placed in the Statehouse rotunda on February 18th, 1950. The inscription on the bottom of the plaque was taken from Willkie's book "One World" which calls for unified world order.. Wendell Willkie plaque is a public sculpture at the Indiana Statehouse in Indianapolis, Indiana and was designed by American sculptor and educator Paul Fjelde. This bronze plaque honors Wendell L. Willkie (1892–1944) who was the Republican Party nominee for the U.S. presidency in 1940. The plaque was placed in the Statehouse rotunda on February 18th, 1950. The inscription on the bottom of the plaque was taken from Willkie's book "One World" which calls for unified world order.. 
Portrait of a Young Man. Author Name: Lorenzo Lotto. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Portrait of a Young Man is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Lorenzo Lotto, executed around 1506 and housed in the Uffizi Gallery, Florence, Italy.The work was part of cardinal Leopoldo de' Medici's collection, after he had bought it from the Cornaro family. In an 1675 inventory it is mentioned as a Raphael work, and was associated with Lotto only in 1910.. The Portrait of a Young Man is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Lorenzo Lotto, executed around 1506 and housed in the Uffizi Gallery, Florence, Italy. The work was part of cardinal Leopoldo de' Medici's collection, after he had bought it from the Cornaro family. In an 1675 inventory it is mentioned as a Raphael work, and was associated with Lotto only in 1910.. 
Las Virgenes Cristianas Expuestas al Populacho. Author Name: Félix Resurrección Hidalgo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Las Virgenes Cristianas Expuestas al Populacho or The Christian Virgins Exposed to the Populace is a famous 1884 history painting by Filipino painter, reformist, and propagandist Félix Resurrección Hidalgo. The painting is alternately known as The Christian Virgins Exposed to the Rabble, Jovenes Cristianas Expuestas al Populacho (Christian Maidens Exposed to the Populace), Christian Virgins Presented to the Populace, The Christian Virgins Being Exposed to the Populace, and Christian Virgins Exposed to the Mob.. Las Virgenes Cristianas Expuestas al Populacho or The Christian Virgins Exposed to the Populace is a famous 1884 history painting by Filipino painter, reformist, and propagandist Félix Resurrección Hidalgo. The painting is alternately known as The Christian Virgins Exposed to the Rabble, Jovenes Cristianas Expuestas al Populacho (Christian Maidens Exposed to the Populace), Christian Virgins Presented to the Populace, The Christian Virgins Being Exposed to the Populace, and Christian Virgins Exposed to the Mob. The painting was a silver medalist (ninth silver medal award among forty-five) during the 1884 Exposicion General de Bellas Artes in Madrid, Spain, also known as the Madrid Exposition. According to Raquel A.G. Reyes, Hidalgo's winning the silver medal for the painting was a landmark achievement that proved the ability of Filipinos to match the work of Spaniards and laid claim to Filipino participation in European culture. Regarded as one of the national treasures of the Philippines, a copy of the painting is currently housed at the Philippine's Metropolitan Museum of Manila and a part of the art collection of the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (Central Bank of the Philippines). The original was destroyed in a fire at the University of Valladolid in Spain.. 
Streetcar Stop for Portland. Author Name: Jorge Pardo. . . Streetcar Stop for Portland is an outdoor 2013 sculpture by Cuban American artist Jorge Pardo, located at the intersection of North Broadway and North Wiedler Street in Portland, Oregon's Lloyd District, in the United States. The fiberglass and steel structure measures 15' 9" x 33' 10" x 17' 3". According to the Regional Arts & Culture Council, which administers the work, Pardo intended it to be "best when it is dark and rainy and the interior lighting creates a warm glow that stands out like a beacon amongst its dark surroundings".. Streetcar Stop for Portland is an outdoor 2013 sculpture by Cuban American artist Jorge Pardo, located at the intersection of North Broadway and North Wiedler Street in Portland, Oregon's Lloyd District, in the United States. The fiberglass and steel structure measures 15' 9" x 33' 10" x 17' 3". According to the Regional Arts & Culture Council, which administers the work, Pardo intended it to be "best when it is dark and rainy and the interior lighting creates a warm glow that stands out like a beacon amongst its dark surroundings".. 
Bottle, Glass, Fork. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Bottle, Glass, Fork (otherwise known as Bouteille, Verre, et Fourchette) is a painting by Pablo Picasso (1881–1973). It was painted in the spring of 1912, at the height of the development of analytic Cubism. Bottle, Glass, Fork is one of the best representations of the point in Picasso's career when his Cubist painting reached almost full abstraction. The analytic phase of Cubism was an original art movement developed by Picasso and his contemporary Georges Braque (1882–1963) and lasted from 1908-1912. Like Bottle, Glass, Fork, the paintings of this movement are characterized by little use of color, and a complex, elegant composition of small, fragmented, tightly interwoven planes within an all-over composition of broader planes. While the figures in Bottle, Glass, Fork can be difficult to. Bottle, Glass, Fork (otherwise known as Bouteille, Verre, et Fourchette) is a painting by Pablo Picasso (1881–1973). It was painted in the spring of 1912, at the height of the development of analytic Cubism. Bottle, Glass, Fork is one of the best representations of the point in Picasso's career when his Cubist painting reached almost full abstraction. The analytic phase of Cubism was an original art movement developed by Picasso and his contemporary Georges Braque (1882–1963) and lasted from 1908-1912. Like Bottle, Glass, Fork, the paintings of this movement are characterized by little use of color, and a complex, elegant composition of small, fragmented, tightly interwoven planes within an all-over composition of broader planes. While the figures in Bottle, Glass, Fork can be difficult to discern, the objects do emerge after careful study of the painting. The painting is displayed in the Cleveland Museum of Art.. 
The Battle of San Romano. Author Name: Paolo Uccello. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Battle of San Romano is a set of three paintings by the Florentine painter Paolo Uccello depicting events that took place at the Battle of San Romano between Florentine and Sienese forces in 1432. They are significant as revealing the development of linear perspective in early Italian Renaissance painting, and are unusual as a major secular commission. The paintings are in egg tempera on wooden panels, each over 3 metres long. According to the National Gallery, London, the panels were commissioned by a member of the Bartolini Salimbeni family in Florence sometime between 1435 and 1460. The paintings were much admired in the 15th century; Lorenzo de' Medici so coveted them that he purchased one and had the remaining two forcibly removed to the Palazzo Medici. They are now divided betwee. The Battle of San Romano is a set of three paintings by the Florentine painter Paolo Uccello depicting events that took place at the Battle of San Romano between Florentine and Sienese forces in 1432. They are significant as revealing the development of linear perspective in early Italian Renaissance painting, and are unusual as a major secular commission. The paintings are in egg tempera on wooden panels, each over 3 metres long. According to the National Gallery, London, the panels were commissioned by a member of the Bartolini Salimbeni family in Florence sometime between 1435 and 1460. The paintings were much admired in the 15th century; Lorenzo de' Medici so coveted them that he purchased one and had the remaining two forcibly removed to the Palazzo Medici. They are now divided between three collections, the National Gallery, the Galleria degli Uffizi, Florence, and the Musée du Louvre, Paris.. 
Two Figures. Author Name: Dame Barbara Hepworth. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_art. . Two Figures is a bronze sculpture by the English sculptor Barbara Hepworth, which was cast in an edition of seven copies. One of these is located in the grounds of the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. Other casts are at Southampton University (on loan from the Hepworth Estate), the Fred Jones Jr. Museum of Art at the University of Oklahoma, and the Hakone Open-Air Museum, Hakone, Japan. The series were cast at the Morris Singer Foundry in London from 1968 onwards. Another cast of this work could also be found at the University of Birmingham Vale site, but is no longer present as of January 2, 2012.. Two Figures is a bronze sculpture by the English sculptor Barbara Hepworth, which was cast in an edition of seven copies. One of these is located in the grounds of the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. Other casts are at Southampton University (on loan from the Hepworth Estate), the Fred Jones Jr. Museum of Art at the University of Oklahoma, and the Hakone Open-Air Museum, Hakone, Japan. The series were cast at the Morris Singer Foundry in London from 1968 onwards. Another cast of this work could also be found at the University of Birmingham Vale site, but is no longer present as of January 2, 2012.. 
Still Life with Profile of Laval. Author Name: Paul Gauguin. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Still Life with Profile of Laval is an 1886 oil painting by French artist Paul Gauguin, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It depicts Gauguin's friend Charles Laval in profile with an assortment of inanimate objects, including a ceramic pot Gauguin made himself.. Still Life with Profile of Laval is an 1886 oil painting by French artist Paul Gauguin, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It depicts Gauguin's friend Charles Laval in profile with an assortment of inanimate objects, including a ceramic pot Gauguin made himself.. 
Okay Hot-Shot, Okay!. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Okay Hot-Shot, Okay! (sometimes Okay Hot-Shot) is a 1963 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein that uses his Ben-Day dots style and a text balloon. It is one of several examples of military art that Lichtenstein created between 1962 and 1964, including several with aeronautical themes like this one. It was inspired by panels from four different comic books that provide the sources for the plane, the pilot, the text balloon and the graphic onomatopoeia, "VOOMP!".. Okay Hot-Shot, Okay! (sometimes Okay Hot-Shot) is a 1963 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein that uses his Ben-Day dots style and a text balloon. It is one of several examples of military art that Lichtenstein created between 1962 and 1964, including several with aeronautical themes like this one. It was inspired by panels from four different comic books that provide the sources for the plane, the pilot, the text balloon and the graphic onomatopoeia, "VOOMP!". Lichtenstein made several alterations to the source images as he compiled them into this composition. He used themes in this work that relate to those expressed in several of his other works. The narrative content is also said to relate to themes from other works, but instead of Lichtenstein's own works it relates to Jackson Pollock's contemporaneous works.. 
Urban Light. Author Name: Chris Burden. . . Urban Light (2008) is a large-scale assemblage sculpture by Chris Burden located at the Wilshire Boulevard entrance to the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. The installation consists of 202 restored street lamps from the 1920s and 1930s. Most of them once lit the streets of Southern California.Sheila Klein's public installation of Los Angeles street lamps, Vermonica, proceeded Urban Light by 15 years.. Urban Light (2008) is a large-scale assemblage sculpture by Chris Burden located at the Wilshire Boulevard entrance to the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. The installation consists of 202 restored street lamps from the 1920s and 1930s. Most of them once lit the streets of Southern California. The cast iron street lamps are of 17 styles, which vary depending on the municipality that commissioned them. They range from about 20 to 30 feet (6 to 9 meters), are painted a uniform gray and placed, forest-like, in a near grid. The lights are solar powered and switched on at dusk. Writing in the Los Angeles Times, Susan Freudenheim described the restored lamps as displaying "elaborate floral and geometric patterns" at the base, with "fluted shafts and glass globes that cap them...meticulously cleaned, painted and refurbished to create an exuberant glow." Sheila Klein's public installation of Los Angeles street lamps, Vermonica, proceeded Urban Light by 15 years.. 
Nuclear Energy. Author Name: Henry Moore. . Author Movement: Bronze Sculpture, Modernism. . Nuclear Energy is a bronze sculpture by Henry Moore that is located on the campus of the University of Chicago at the site of world's first nuclear reactor, Chicago Pile-1.. Nuclear Energy is a bronze sculpture by Henry Moore that is located on the campus of the University of Chicago at the site of world's first nuclear reactor, Chicago Pile-1.. 
Waffle Shop: A Reality Show. Author Name: Carnegie Mellon University. . Author Movement: Social Practice. . Waffle Shop: A Reality Show was a performance art project and restaurant in the East Liberty neighborhood of Pittsburgh. The restaurant was operated by Carnegie Mellon University students. The Waffle Shop was part of a trend in Pittsburgh to support performance art within the urban core. In addition to serving food, students operate a talk show live-streamed online, featuring restaurant patrons as guests.Some special talk shop themes have included ringtones as "art."Local food critics reviewed it relatively favorably, noting the unique talk show situation.It closed in 2012.. Waffle Shop: A Reality Show was a performance art project and restaurant in the East Liberty neighborhood of Pittsburgh. The restaurant was operated by Carnegie Mellon University students. The Waffle Shop was part of a trend in Pittsburgh to support performance art within the urban core. In addition to serving food, students operate a talk show live-streamed online, featuring restaurant patrons as guests. It opened in 2008 by Carnegie Mellon University art professor Jon Rubin as a 2-semester student art project. The project/restaurant was so successful during that initial run that it was continued for several more years. Some special talk shop themes have included ringtones as "art." The related sign atop the building was also used for public art purposes, and later became known as The Last Billboard. The billboard is still in place and continues to be changed periodically. Local food critics reviewed it relatively favorably, noting the unique talk show situation. It closed in 2012.. 
The Union of Earth and Water. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Union of Earth and Water is a Baroque painting by Flemish artist Peter Paul Rubens, showing Cybele as the personification of earth holding the horn of plenty and Neptune as the personification of water in the center. The pair is crowned by the goddess Victoria and the union is heralded through a conch by the Triton below. The union symbolizes fertility, wealth and prosperity, specifically the city of Antwerp and the river Scheldt whose mouth in Rubens' times was blocked by the Dutch depriving Flanders of the access to the sea. The painting features a pyramidal composition, symmetry and the balance of forms. It was influenced by late Italian Renaissance, particularly by Venetian artists.. The Union of Earth and Water is a Baroque painting by Flemish artist Peter Paul Rubens, showing Cybele as the personification of earth holding the horn of plenty and Neptune as the personification of water in the center. The pair is crowned by the goddess Victoria and the union is heralded through a conch by the Triton below. The union symbolizes fertility, wealth and prosperity, specifically the city of Antwerp and the river Scheldt whose mouth in Rubens' times was blocked by the Dutch depriving Flanders of the access to the sea. The painting features a pyramidal composition, symmetry and the balance of forms. It was influenced by late Italian Renaissance, particularly by Venetian artists. A smaller copy of the painting made in the Rubens' workshop was owned by the Russian businessman Vladimir Logvinenko. Following the abolition of a thirty per cent import duty on artworks in 2004, Logvinenko brought the copy from London to Moscow.. 
The Tortoise Trainer. Author Name: Osman Hamdi Bey. . . The Tortoise Trainer (Turkish: Kaplumbağa Terbiyecisi) is a painting by Osman Hamdi Bey which was crafted in 1906 and 1907 (two versions). In 2004 it was sold for $3.5M and is currently displayed at the Pera Museum in Istanbul.. The Tortoise Trainer (Turkish: Kaplumbağa Terbiyecisi) is a painting by Osman Hamdi Bey which was crafted in 1906 and 1907 (two versions). In 2004 it was sold for $3.5M and is currently displayed at the Pera Museum in Istanbul. In the Tortoise Trainer, Osman Hamdi Bey satirises the slow and ineffective attempts at reforming the Ottoman Empire, through the attempts of an anachronistic historical character to train tortoises. The painting depicts an elderly man in traditional Ottoman religious costume which predates the introduction of the fez and the spread of Western style dress with the Tanzimat reforms in the mid 19th century. He holds a traditional ney flute with which he is attempting to "train" the tortoises at his feet.. 
Damned Soul. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Damned Soul (Latin: Anima Dannata) is a marble sculpture bust by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. According to Rudolf Wittkower, the sculpture is in the Palazzo di Spagna in Rome. This may well be what is known today as the Palazzo Monaldeschi.There is a bronze copy, executed by Massimiliano Soldani-Benzi some time between 1705 and 1707, in the Liechtenstein Collection.Recent scholarship on the sculpture has queried whether its topic of the sculptures is no the the Christian personifications of pain but a depiction of a satyr.. Damned Soul (Latin: Anima Dannata) is a marble sculpture bust by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. According to Rudolf Wittkower, the sculpture is in the Palazzo di Spagna in Rome. This may well be what is known today as the Palazzo Monaldeschi. There is a bronze copy, executed by Massimiliano Soldani-Benzi some time between 1705 and 1707, in the Liechtenstein Collection. Recent scholarship on the sculpture has queried whether its topic of the sculptures is no the the Christian personifications of pain but a depiction of a satyr.. 
The Wedding Feast at Cana. Author Name: Paolo Veronese. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Wedding at Cana (or The Wedding Feast at Cana) is a massive oil painting by the late-Renaissance or Mannerist Italian painter Paolo Veronese. It is on display in the Musée du Louvre in Paris, where it is the largest painting in that museum's collection.. The Wedding at Cana (or The Wedding Feast at Cana) is a massive oil painting by the late-Renaissance or Mannerist Italian painter Paolo Veronese. It is on display in the Musée du Louvre in Paris, where it is the largest painting in that museum's collection.. 
The Farm. Author Name: Joan Miró. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . The Farm is an oil painting made by Joan Miró between[clarification needed] the summer of 1921 in Mont-roig del Camp and winter 1922 in Paris. It is a kind of inventory of the farmhouse owned by his family since 1911 in the town of Mont-roig del Camp. Miró himself regarded this work as a key in his career, describing it as "a summary of my entire life in the countryside" and "the summary of one period of my work, but also the point of departure for what was to follow." It is preserved in the National Gallery of Art in Washington DC, where it was given in 1987 by Mary Hemingway, coming from the private collection of American writer Ernest Hemingway, who had described it by saying, “It has in it all that you feel about Spain when you are there and all that you feel when you are away and cann. The Farm is an oil painting made by Joan Miró between[clarification needed] the summer of 1921 in Mont-roig del Camp and winter 1922 in Paris. It is a kind of inventory of the farmhouse owned by his family since 1911 in the town of Mont-roig del Camp. Miró himself regarded this work as a key in his career, describing it as "a summary of my entire life in the countryside" and "the summary of one period of my work, but also the point of departure for what was to follow." It is preserved in the National Gallery of Art in Washington DC, where it was given in 1987 by Mary Hemingway, coming from the private collection of American writer Ernest Hemingway, who had described it by saying, “It has in it all that you feel about Spain when you are there and all that you feel when you are away and cannot go there. No one else has been able to paint these two very opposing things.”. 
The Nut Gatherers. Author Name: William-Adolphe Bouguereau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Nut Gatherers (Les Noisettes) is an 1882 oil painting by the French artist William-Adolphe Bouguereau. It is one of the most popular pieces at the Detroit Institute of Arts. The painting was donated to the museum by William E. Scripps in 1954.. The Nut Gatherers (Les Noisettes) is an 1882 oil painting by the French artist William-Adolphe Bouguereau. It is one of the most popular pieces at the Detroit Institute of Arts. The painting was donated to the museum by William E. Scripps in 1954.. 
Doni Tondo. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Doni Tondo or Doni Madonna, sometimes called The Holy Family, is the only finished panel painting by the mature Michelangelo to survive. Now in the Uffizi in Florence, Italy, and still in its original frame, the painting was probably commissioned by Agnolo Doni to commemorate his marriage to Maddalena Strozzi, the daughter of a powerful Tuscan family. The painting is in the form of a tondo, or round frame, which is frequently associated during the Renaissance with domestic ideas.. The Doni Tondo or Doni Madonna, sometimes called The Holy Family, is the only finished panel painting by the mature Michelangelo to survive. Now in the Uffizi in Florence, Italy, and still in its original frame, the painting was probably commissioned by Agnolo Doni to commemorate his marriage to Maddalena Strozzi, the daughter of a powerful Tuscan family. The painting is in the form of a tondo, or round frame, which is frequently associated during the Renaissance with domestic ideas. The work was most likely created during the period after the Doni's marriage in 1503 or 1504, as well as after the excavation of the Laocoön about 1506, yet before the Sistine Chapel ceiling frescoes were begun in 1508, dating the painting to approximately late 1506 or 1507. The Doni Tondo features the Christian Holy family (the child Jesus, Mary, and Saint Joseph) along with John the Baptist in the foreground and contains five ambiguous nude male figures in the background. The inclusion of these nude figures has been interpreted in a variety of ways.. 
The Skater. Author Name: Gilbert Stuart. . . The Skater is a 1782 oil on canvas portrait of William Grant by the American artist Gilbert Stuart. Painted while Stuart was living in London, it was the work that first brought the artist broad recognition.. The Skater is a 1782 oil on canvas portrait of William Grant by the American artist Gilbert Stuart. Painted while Stuart was living in London, it was the work that first brought the artist broad recognition.. 
The Land of Cockaigne. Author Name: Pieter Bruegel the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_and_Flemish_Renaissance_painting. . Het Luilekkerland (Dutch, "the lazy-luscious-land") — known in English as The Land of Cockaigne — is a 1567 oil painting by Flemish artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder (c. 1525–1569). In medieval times, Cockaigne was a mythical land of plenty, but Bruegel's depiction of Cockaigne and its residents is not meant to be a flattering one. He chooses rather a comic illustration of the spiritual emptiness believed to derive from gluttony and sloth, two of the seven deadly sins.. Het Luilekkerland (Dutch, "the lazy-luscious-land") — known in English as The Land of Cockaigne — is a 1567 oil painting by Flemish artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder (c. 1525–1569). In medieval times, Cockaigne was a mythical land of plenty, but Bruegel's depiction of Cockaigne and its residents is not meant to be a flattering one. He chooses rather a comic illustration of the spiritual emptiness believed to derive from gluttony and sloth, two of the seven deadly sins.. 
Automat. Author Name: Edward Hopper. . . Automat is a (1927) painting by the American realist painter Edward Hopper. The painting was first displayed on Valentine’s Day 1927 at the opening of Hopper’s second solo show, at the Rehn Galleries in New York. By April it had been sold for $1,200. The painting is today owned by the Des Moines Art Center in Iowa.. Automat is a (1927) painting by the American realist painter Edward Hopper. The painting was first displayed on Valentine’s Day 1927 at the opening of Hopper’s second solo show, at the Rehn Galleries in New York. By April it had been sold for $1,200. The painting is today owned by the Des Moines Art Center in Iowa.. 
Ramon Casas and Pere Romeu in an Automobile. Author Name: Ramon Casas. . Author Movement: Modernisme. . Ramon Casas and Pere Romeu in an Automobile is a painting by Ramon Casas that is exhibited at the National Art Museum of Catalonia in Barcelona.. Ramon Casas and Pere Romeu in an Automobile is a painting by Ramon Casas that is exhibited at the National Art Museum of Catalonia in Barcelona.. 
Whaam!. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Whaam! is a 1963 diptych painting by the American artist Roy Lichtenstein. It is one of the best-known works of pop art, and among Lichtenstein's most important paintings. Whaam! was first exhibited at the Leo Castelli Gallery in New York City in 1963, and purchased by the Tate Gallery, London, in 1966. It has been on permanent display at Tate Modern since 2006.. Whaam! is a 1963 diptych painting by the American artist Roy Lichtenstein. It is one of the best-known works of pop art, and among Lichtenstein's most important paintings. Whaam! was first exhibited at the Leo Castelli Gallery in New York City in 1963, and purchased by the Tate Gallery, London, in 1966. It has been on permanent display at Tate Modern since 2006. The left-hand panel shows a fighter plane firing a rocket that, in the right-hand panel, hits a second plane which explodes in flames. Lichtenstein conceived the image from several comic-book panels. He transformed his primary source, a panel from a 1962 war comic book, by presenting it as a diptych while altering the relationship of the graphical and narrative elements. Whaam! is regarded for the temporal, spatial and psychological integration of its two panels. The painting's title is integral to the action and impact of the painting, and displayed in large onomatopoeia in the right panel. Lichtenstein studied as an artist before and after serving in the United States Army during World War II. He practiced anti-aircraft drills during basic training, and he was sent for pilot training but the program was canceled before it started. Among the topics he tackled after the war were romance and war. He depicted aerial combat in several works. Whaam! is part of a series on war that he worked on between 1962 and 1964, and along with As I Opened Fire (1964) is one of his two large war-themed paintings.. 
Interior of a Restaurant in Arles. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Interior of a Restaurant in Arles is a colored oil painting executed by the Dutch artist Vincent van Gogh on an industrially primed canvas of size 25 (Toile de 25 figure) in Arles, France, late August, 1888.. Interior of a Restaurant in Arles is a colored oil painting executed by the Dutch artist Vincent van Gogh on an industrially primed canvas of size 25 (Toile de 25 figure) in Arles, France, late August, 1888. Accurately dating Interior of a Restaurant in Arles has been difficult, largely because van Gogh never mentioned the painting in any existing letter. Pierre Leprohon placed it in late August, 1888, due in part to the blossoming sunflowers and this has been generally accepted, including by leading 20th century van Gogh scholar Jan Hulsker. It is one of two studies Vincent created of this restaurant, the other being Interior of the Restaurant Carrel in Arles. Long supposed to be a view from inside the Hotel Carrel, de la Faille remarks they were probably the interior of the restaurant next to the Yellow House.. 
Floralis Genérica. Author Name: Catalano, Eduardo. . . Floralis Genérica is a sculpture made of steel and aluminum located in Plaza de las Naciones Unidas, Avenida Figueroa Alcorta, Buenos Aires, a gift to the city by the Argentine architect Eduardo Catalano. Catalano once said that the flower "is a synthesis of all the flowers and is both a hope that is reborn every day to open." It was created in 2002. The sculpture was designed to move, closing its petals in the evening and opening them in the morning.. Floralis Genérica is a sculpture made of steel and aluminum located in Plaza de las Naciones Unidas, Avenida Figueroa Alcorta, Buenos Aires, a gift to the city by the Argentine architect Eduardo Catalano. Catalano once said that the flower "is a synthesis of all the flowers and is both a hope that is reborn every day to open." It was created in 2002. The sculpture was designed to move, closing its petals in the evening and opening them in the morning. The sculpture is located in the center of a park of four acres of wooded boundaries, surrounded by paths that get closer and provide different perspectives of the monument, and placed above a reflecting pool, which apart from fulfilling its aesthetic function, protects it. It represents a large flower made of stainless steel with aluminum skeleton and reinforced concrete, which looks at the sky, extending to its six petals. It weighs eighteen tons and is 23 meters high.. 
Sare Jahan se Accha. Author Name: Pramod Kamble. . . Sare Jahan se Accha is a pencil sketch in Ahmednagar city. It was created in the year 1998. The sketch has been performed by Pramod Kamble who is a creative painter and sculptor. He created it as a tribute to the nation on the occasion of 50 years of independence. It was painted on the specially prepared wall of Mahavir Art Gallery in Ahmednagar. Pramod has portrayed Bharat Mata (goddess of Indian Independence) and 500 great people born out of Indian culture. This is supposed to be the worlds biggest pencil sketch.. Sare Jahan se Accha is a pencil sketch in Ahmednagar city. It was created in the year 1998. The sketch has been performed by Pramod Kamble who is a creative painter and sculptor. He created it as a tribute to the nation on the occasion of 50 years of independence. It was painted on the specially prepared wall of Mahavir Art Gallery in Ahmednagar. Pramod has portrayed Bharat Mata (goddess of Indian Independence) and 500 great people born out of Indian culture. This is supposed to be the worlds biggest pencil sketch.. 
Victory O Lord!. Author Name: Sir John Everett Millais, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pre-Raphaelite_Brotherhood. . Victory O Lord! (1871) is a painting by John Everett Millais depicting Moses, Aaron and Hur during the Battle of Rephidim against the Amalekites. Along with his landscape Chill October it represented a major turning point in Millais's career.The painting illustrates a passage in the Book of Exodus, chapter 17, which describes how Moses and his two companions watched the battle from the hill. Moses holds the Rod of God in his right hand.. Victory O Lord! (1871) is a painting by John Everett Millais depicting Moses, Aaron and Hur during the Battle of Rephidim against the Amalekites. Along with his landscape Chill October it represented a major turning point in Millais's career. The painting illustrates a passage in the Book of Exodus, chapter 17, which describes how Moses and his two companions watched the battle from the hill. Moses holds the Rod of God in his right hand. Millais depicts the "going down of the sun", when the three patriarchs watch the final moments of the battle. Moses is in the middle while Aaron and Hur hold up his arms to ensure victory. Aaron, in red, is on the right. The battle below is indicated by the arrow at the bottom right. Millais worked on the painting over many years, scraping and repainting the surface. F.G. Stephens commented that the painting depicted the conflict between the unyielding and steadfast willpower of Moses, and the physical and emotional exhaustion of his companions. He also praised the vivid painting of the aged flesh of the figures. The painting contrasts dramatically in style with the contemporary religious works of Millais's former companion, William Holman Hunt, such as The Shadow of Death, on which Hunt was working at the same time; however, it has been suggested that both pictures may refer to typological prefigurations of the crucifixion in scenes in which raised, outstretched arms signify both physical suffering and triumph.. 
The Test of Fire of Moses. Author Name: Giorgione. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Test of Fire of Moses is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giorgione (1500-1501). It is housed in the Galleria degli Uffizi of Florence.The work is dimensionally and thematically similar to the its Pendant painting Judgement of Salomon, also in the Uffizi, and is dated to the years immediately after Giorgione's moving to Venice.The episode is taken from the Talmud, and was probably commissioned by an acculturated person who was not entirely following to the official Roman Catholic positions.. The Test of Fire of Moses is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giorgione (1500-1501). It is housed in the Galleria degli Uffizi of Florence. The work is dimensionally and thematically similar to the its Pendant painting Judgement of Salomon, also in the Uffizi, and is dated to the years immediately after Giorgione's moving to Venice. The episode is taken from the Talmud, and was probably commissioned by an acculturated person who was not entirely following to the official Roman Catholic positions. The horizontal setting is similar to that in Giovanni Bellini's Holy Allegory, also in the Uffizi, and allows the painter to give importance to the landscape. In the latter's care for detail are evident influences from Northern Europe painting.. 
Ann Dancing. Author Name: Julian Opie. . . Ann Dancing is an artwork created in 2007 by Julian Opie (born 1958, London) an English artist and former trustee of the Tate. The sculpture was removed from its base on August 20, 2008, for repairs, and was returned on October 31 of that year.. Ann Dancing is an artwork created in 2007 by Julian Opie (born 1958, London) an English artist and former trustee of the Tate. The sculpture was removed from its base on August 20, 2008, for repairs, and was returned on October 31 of that year.. 
David Garrick as Richard III. Author Name: William  Hogarth. . . David Garrick as Richard III is a painting dating from 1745 by the English artist William Hogarth.The painting shows the actor and stage manager David Garrick in the role of Richard III in Shakespeare's play Richard III. It depicts a dramatic moment in the play on the eve of the Battle of Bosworth. The king, who had been asleep in his tent on the battlefield, has just woken from a dream in which he has seen the ghosts of the opponents he had previously murdered. Hogarth was a friend of Garrick, who had gained a degree of fame through his portrayal of Richard III at the Drury Lane Theatre in London. The painting shows the actor with fear and concern, one arm raised and with a shocked expression on his face.. David Garrick as Richard III is a painting dating from 1745 by the English artist William Hogarth. The painting shows the actor and stage manager David Garrick in the role of Richard III in Shakespeare's play Richard III. It depicts a dramatic moment in the play on the eve of the Battle of Bosworth. The king, who had been asleep in his tent on the battlefield, has just woken from a dream in which he has seen the ghosts of the opponents he had previously murdered. Hogarth was a friend of Garrick, who had gained a degree of fame through his portrayal of Richard III at the Drury Lane Theatre in London. The painting shows the actor with fear and concern, one arm raised and with a shocked expression on his face. Hogarth, best remembered for his satirical prints on social themes, was also a skilled painter and portraitist. This painting, much more than just a portrait, shows the subject at a key time in history, and also in theatrical pose. It falls between the commonly accepted genres of portraiture and historical painting. The pose used by Hogarth was similar to other that used for other portraits of actors, especially those by Zoffany. Having compared Hogarth's painting with those of Garrick by Reynolds, Gill Parry concludes that Hogarth had helped to establish a new subgenre within portraiture, that of the theatrical portrait. The pose adopted by the actor was described by Hogarth as "the serpentine line"; he saw it as "being composed of two curves contrasted". In his 1753 treatise The Analysis of Beauty he suggests that this is a particularly beautiful shape which "gives play to the imagination and delights the eye". The painting is in oil on canvas and measures 190.5 centimetres (75.0 in) by 250.8 centimetres (98.7 in). It is owned by the Walker Art Gallery in Liverpool, Merseyside, England, and was purchased by the gallery in 1956 with help from the National Art Collections Fund.. 
San Gregorio Polyptych. Author Name: Antonello da Messina. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . San Gregorio Polyptych is a polyptych painting by the Italian Renaissance master Antonello da Messina, completed in 1473 and housed in the Regional Museum of Messina, southern Italy.. San Gregorio Polyptych is a polyptych painting by the Italian Renaissance master Antonello da Messina, completed in 1473 and housed in the Regional Museum of Messina, southern Italy.. 
Roger B. Taney. Author Name: Rinehart, William Henry. . . Roger B. Taney is a bronze statue of Roger B. Taney, by William Henry Rinehart.It is located in the North Garden, at Mount Vernon Place, Baltimore. The statue is a recast of the original at Annapolis, MarylandThe inscription reads:(On rear proper left side of sculpture:)inv et(?) mod. W. H. Rinehart Rom (On rear proper right side of sculpture:) FERD. VON MILLER (...inscription illegible) MUNCHEN 188(?) (On book in figure's proper left hand:)(On plaque on front of granite base:)signed Founder's mark appears. Roger B. Taney is a bronze statue of Roger B. Taney, by William Henry Rinehart. It is located in the North Garden, at Mount Vernon Place, Baltimore. The statue is a recast of the original at Annapolis, Maryland The inscription reads:(On rear proper left side of sculpture:)inv et(?) mod. W. H. Rinehart Rom (On rear proper right side of sculpture:) FERD. VON MILLER (...inscription illegible) MUNCHEN 188(?) (On book in figure's proper left hand:) (On plaque on front of granite base:) signed Founder's mark appears. 
Apollo and Daphne. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Apollo and Daphne is a life-sized Baroque marble sculpture by Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini, executed between 1622 and 1625. Housed in the Galleria Borghese in Rome, the work depicts the climax of the story of Daphne and Phoebus in Ovid's Metamorphoses.. Apollo and Daphne is a life-sized Baroque marble sculpture by Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini, executed between 1622 and 1625. Housed in the Galleria Borghese in Rome, the work depicts the climax of the story of Daphne and Phoebus in Ovid's Metamorphoses.. 
Warring Wings. Author Name: Kanso, Nabil. . . The Split of Life is a series of over 80 mural size oil paintings by Nabil Kanso. The paintings span a period from 1974 to 1994, and deal with contemporary and historical issues of war and violence.. The Split of Life is a series of over 80 mural size oil paintings by Nabil Kanso. The paintings span a period from 1974 to 1994, and deal with contemporary and historical issues of war and violence.. 
Untitled. Author Name: Donald Judd. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Minimalism. . Untitled is a sculpture created by American artist Donald Judd in 1967, located at the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, USA. It consists of a brass bar over a series of five steel boxes in Judd's signature cadmium red.. Untitled is a sculpture created by American artist Donald Judd in 1967, located at the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, USA. It consists of a brass bar over a series of five steel boxes in Judd's signature cadmium red.. 
The Transfiguration. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Transfiguration is the last painting by the Italian High Renaissance master Raphael. Commissioned by Cardinal Giulio de Medici, the later Pope Clement VII (1523–1534) and conceived as an altarpiece for the Narbonne Cathedral in France, Raphael worked on it until his death in 1520. The painting exemplifies Raphael's development as an artist and the culmination of his career. Unusually for a depiction of the Transfiguration of Jesus in Christian art, the subject is combined with an additional episode from the Gospels in the lower part of the painting.. The Transfiguration is the last painting by the Italian High Renaissance master Raphael. Commissioned by Cardinal Giulio de Medici, the later Pope Clement VII (1523–1534) and conceived as an altarpiece for the Narbonne Cathedral in France, Raphael worked on it until his death in 1520. The painting exemplifies Raphael's development as an artist and the culmination of his career. Unusually for a depiction of the Transfiguration of Jesus in Christian art, the subject is combined with an additional episode from the Gospels in the lower part of the painting. The Transfiguration stands as an allegory of the transformative nature of representation. It is now in the Pinacoteca Vaticana in Vatican City.. 
The Persistence of Memory. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The Persistence of Memory (Spanish: La persistencia de la memoria; Catalan: La persistència de la memòria) is a 1931 painting by artist Salvador Dalí, and is one of his most recognizable works.First shown at the Julien Levy Gallery in 1932, since 1934 the painting has been in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) in New York City, which received it from an anonymous donor. It is widely recognized and frequently referenced in popular culture, and sometimes referred to by more descriptive (though incorrect) titles, such as 'The Soft Watches' or 'The Melting Watches'.. The Persistence of Memory (Spanish: La persistencia de la memoria; Catalan: La persistència de la memòria) is a 1931 painting by artist Salvador Dalí, and is one of his most recognizable works. First shown at the Julien Levy Gallery in 1932, since 1934 the painting has been in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) in New York City, which received it from an anonymous donor. It is widely recognized and frequently referenced in popular culture, and sometimes referred to by more descriptive (though incorrect) titles, such as 'The Soft Watches' or 'The Melting Watches'.. 
Indian Maiden and Fawn. Author Name: Alexander Phimister Proctor. . . Indian Maiden and Fawn is a 1917–1924 sculpture by Alexander Phimister Proctor.. Indian Maiden and Fawn is a 1917–1924 sculpture by Alexander Phimister Proctor.. 
Baptism of St. Zenobius and His Appointment as a Bishop. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Baptism of St. Zenobius and His Appointment as a Bishop is a painting of saint Zenobius of Florence by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli, c. 1500-1505.The Histories of St. Zenobius are the last known work of Botticelli. The other three paintings are:. Baptism of St. Zenobius and His Appointment as a Bishop is a painting of saint Zenobius of Florence by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli, c. 1500-1505. The Histories of St. Zenobius are the last known work of Botticelli. The other three paintings are:. 
Frederick Keep Monument. Author Name: James E. Fraser. . . Frederick Keep Monument is a public artwork by American artist James Earle Fraser, located at Rock Creek Cemetery in Washington, D.C., United States. "Frederick Keep Monument" was originally surveyed as part of the Smithsonian's Save Outdoor Sculpture! survey in 1993. This sculpture rests at the site of the grave of Frederick and Florence Keep and their child.. Frederick Keep Monument is a public artwork by American artist James Earle Fraser, located at Rock Creek Cemetery in Washington, D.C., United States. "Frederick Keep Monument" was originally surveyed as part of the Smithsonian's Save Outdoor Sculpture! survey in 1993. This sculpture rests at the site of the grave of Frederick and Florence Keep and their child.. 
The Poor Rebecker. Author Name: José Rodrigues. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . O Pobre Rabequista (The Poor Rebecker) is an oil painting, 1855 (oil on canvas 170 X 122 cm), by José Rodrigues.. O Pobre Rabequista (The Poor Rebecker) is an oil painting, 1855 (oil on canvas 170 X 122 cm), by José Rodrigues.. 
Seven Saints. Author Name: Fra' Filippo Lippi, O.Carm.. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . Seven Saints is a tempera on panel painting by the Italian Renaissance master Filippo Lippi, dating to c. 1449–59, in the collection of the National Gallery, London. It is a pendant to Lippi's Annunciation, also in the National Gallery. The lunettes were commissioned as part of the decoration of the Palazzo Medici in Florence, where they were likely placed above a door or a bed.Both lunettes were acquired in 1855 from the Metzger brothers by Sir Charles Eastlake and donated to the National Gallery in 1861.. Seven Saints is a tempera on panel painting by the Italian Renaissance master Filippo Lippi, dating to c. 1449–59, in the collection of the National Gallery, London. It is a pendant to Lippi's Annunciation, also in the National Gallery. The lunettes were commissioned as part of the decoration of the Palazzo Medici in Florence, where they were likely placed above a door or a bed. There is general agreement on Lippi's authorship of the panels, but their dating is less certain; they were produced some time between Lorenzo the Magnificent's birth in 1449 and the completion of the palace's furnishing in 1459. That their patron belonged to the Medici family is testified by the presence of Piero di Cosimo de' Medici's coat of arms in the other lunette, and by the link between the saints depicted in this panel and the male members of the family. Piero di Cosimo lived in Palazzo Medici from 1456. In the center is St John the Baptist, patron saint of Florence, flanked by the Saints Cosmas and Damian (protectors of the Medici, and in particular of Cosimo de' Medici, Piero's father). On the right, in the foreground, is St Peter of Verona, protector of Piero di Cosimo de' Medici, and next to him is St John the Evangelist, protector of his brother Giovanni. On the left, in the foreground, are St Francis of Assisi, the patron of Pierfrancesco the Elder (Piero's cousin), and St Lawrence, patron of his uncle, Lorenzo the Elder. Both lunettes were acquired in 1855 from the Metzger brothers by Sir Charles Eastlake and donated to the National Gallery in 1861.. 
Mrs. Fiske Warren  and Her Daughter Rachel. Author Name: John Singer Sargent. . . Mrs. Fiske Warren (Gretchen Osgood) and Her Daughter Rachel is an oil on canvas portrait painting of Gretchen Osgood Warren, an American actress, singer, and poet, and her daughter Rachel Warren. The painting was commissioned and completed in 1903 by the American portrait artist John Singer Sargent. The painting measures at 152.4 × 102.55 cm (60.0 × 40.4 in) and is exhibited at the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, Massachusetts. The museum acquired it on 13 May 1964.. Mrs. Fiske Warren (Gretchen Osgood) and Her Daughter Rachel is an oil on canvas portrait painting of Gretchen Osgood Warren, an American actress, singer, and poet, and her daughter Rachel Warren. The painting was commissioned and completed in 1903 by the American portrait artist John Singer Sargent. The painting measures at 152.4 × 102.55 cm (60.0 × 40.4 in) and is exhibited at the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, Massachusetts. The museum acquired it on 13 May 1964.. 
Taddei Tondo. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Taddei Tondo or The Virgin and Child with the Infant St John is a marble relief tondo (circular composition) by Italian Renaissance artist Michelangelo Buonarroti. Part of the permanent collection of the Royal Academy of Arts in London, it is the only marble sculpture by Michelangelo in Great Britain. A "perfect demonstration" of his carving technique, the work delivers a "powerful emotional and narrative punch".. The Taddei Tondo or The Virgin and Child with the Infant St John is a marble relief tondo (circular composition) by Italian Renaissance artist Michelangelo Buonarroti. Part of the permanent collection of the Royal Academy of Arts in London, it is the only marble sculpture by Michelangelo in Great Britain. A "perfect demonstration" of his carving technique, the work delivers a "powerful emotional and narrative punch".. 
Dickens and Little Nell. Author Name: Elwell, Francis Edwin. . . Dickens and Little Nell is a bronze sculpture by Francis Edwin Elwell that stands in Clark Park in the Spruce Hill neighborhood of Philadelphia. The sculpture depicts the 19th-century British author Charles Dickens and Nell Trent, a character from his 1840-41 novel The Old Curiosity Shop. The grouping was one of the most celebrated American sculptural works of the late 19th century, but by the early 21st century had become somewhat obscure.It is one of just two known statues of Dickens, who said he wanted no such representations.. Dickens and Little Nell is a bronze sculpture by Francis Edwin Elwell that stands in Clark Park in the Spruce Hill neighborhood of Philadelphia. The sculpture depicts the 19th-century British author Charles Dickens and Nell Trent, a character from his 1840-41 novel The Old Curiosity Shop. The grouping was one of the most celebrated American sculptural works of the late 19th century, but by the early 21st century had become somewhat obscure. It is one of just two known statues of Dickens, who said he wanted no such representations.. 
Hell’s Kitchen. Author Name: Parker, Henry Perlee. . . Hell’s Kitchen is one of the names of a famous painting showing many of the eccentrics living in the Newcastle area in the early 19th century.. Hell’s Kitchen is one of the names of a famous painting showing many of the eccentrics living in the Newcastle area in the early 19th century.. 
Portrait of Princess Saint Joana. Author Name: Nuno Gonçalves. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Portuguese_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Princess Saint Joana (Portuguese: Retrato da Princesa Santa Joana) is a painting by Portuguese Renaissance artist Nuno Gonçalves.  It was painted during the time when Joan, Princess of Portugal was regent for her father, Afonso V of Portugal.. The Portrait of Princess Saint Joana (Portuguese: Retrato da Princesa Santa Joana) is a painting by Portuguese Renaissance artist Nuno Gonçalves. It was painted during the time when Joan, Princess of Portugal was regent for her father, Afonso V of Portugal.. 
Portrait of María Anna. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Portrait of Maria Anna is a 1630 portrait of Maria Anna of Spain by Diego Velázquez. It is now in the Prado.It was painted during his three-month stay in Naples on his return to Spain from Naples. It was made prior to its subject's marriage to Ferdinand III of Austria to be taken to Spain as a reminder of her in her absence for her brother Philip IV of Spain (since the time of Charles I of Spain it had been customary for Spanish kings and their relatives to exchange kinship portraits to show their character to others, to demonstrate their appearance in marriage negotiations or simply to remind each other of their appearance). As in his previous portraits, Velázquez paints his subject against a dark background to make the figure stand out, whilst the green suit, grey ruff and hair are a. The Portrait of Maria Anna is a 1630 portrait of Maria Anna of Spain by Diego Velázquez. It is now in the Prado. It was painted during his three-month stay in Naples on his return to Spain from Naples. It was made prior to its subject's marriage to Ferdinand III of Austria to be taken to Spain as a reminder of her in her absence for her brother Philip IV of Spain (since the time of Charles I of Spain it had been customary for Spanish kings and their relatives to exchange kinship portraits to show their character to others, to demonstrate their appearance in marriage negotiations or simply to remind each other of their appearance). As in his previous portraits, Velázquez paints his subject against a dark background to make the figure stand out, whilst the green suit, grey ruff and hair are all realised in minute detail.. 
Her Majesty the Queen. Author Name: Joan Miró. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . Her Majesty the Queen is an object-sculpture made by Joan Miró in 1974 and now part of the permanent collection of the Joan Miró Foundation in Barcelona.. Her Majesty the Queen is an object-sculpture made by Joan Miró in 1974 and now part of the permanent collection of the Joan Miró Foundation in Barcelona.. 
Cook Statue. Author Name: Trethewey, William. . . The Cook Statue in Victoria Square, Christchurch, commemorates the three journeys of James Cook to New Zealand. The statue, sculpted by William Trethewey, was unveiled on 10 August 1932 by the Governor-General, Lord Bledisloe. It was donated by bookmaker and philanthropist Matthew Barnett (1861–1935).. The Cook Statue in Victoria Square, Christchurch, commemorates the three journeys of James Cook to New Zealand. The statue, sculpted by William Trethewey, was unveiled on 10 August 1932 by the Governor-General, Lord Bledisloe. It was donated by bookmaker and philanthropist Matthew Barnett (1861–1935).. 
Mont Sainte-Victoire seen from Bellevue. Author Name: Paul Cézanne. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Mont Sainte-Victoire seen from Bellevue is a landscape painting dating from around 1886, by the French artist Paul Cézanne. The subject of the painting is the Montagne Sainte-Victoire in Provence in southern France. Cézanne spent a lot of time in Aix-en-Provence at the time, and developed a special relationship with the landscape. This particular mountain, that stood out in the surrounding landscape, he could see from his house, and he painted it in on numerous occasions.. Mont Sainte-Victoire seen from Bellevue is a landscape painting dating from around 1886, by the French artist Paul Cézanne. The subject of the painting is the Montagne Sainte-Victoire in Provence in southern France. Cézanne spent a lot of time in Aix-en-Provence at the time, and developed a special relationship with the landscape. This particular mountain, that stood out in the surrounding landscape, he could see from his house, and he painted it in on numerous occasions. Moreover, Cézanne depicted the railway bridge on the Aix-Marseille line at the Arc River Valley in the center on the right side of this picture. The painting shows clearly Cézanne's project of rendering order and clarity to natural scenes, without giving up the optical realism of Impressionism. Both the light and the colours of the painting give the impression of a pattern that is not imposed on nature, but is there naturally.. 
Equestrian Portrait of Charles V. Author Name: Titian. . . Equestrian Portrait of Charles V (also Emperor Charles V on Horseback or Charles V at Mühlberg) is an oil-on-canvas painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Titian. Created between April and September 1548 while Titian was at the imperial court of Augsburg, it is a tribute to Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor, following his victory in the April 1547 Battle of Mühlberg against the Protestant armies.It was acquired by the Museo del Prado in 1827.. Equestrian Portrait of Charles V (also Emperor Charles V on Horseback or Charles V at Mühlberg) is an oil-on-canvas painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Titian. Created between April and September 1548 while Titian was at the imperial court of Augsburg, it is a tribute to Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor, following his victory in the April 1547 Battle of Mühlberg against the Protestant armies. The portrait in part gains its impact by its directness and sense of contained power: the horse's strength seems just in check, and Charles' brilliantly shining armour and the painting's deep reds are reminders of battle and heroism. Titian recorded all of the foreground elements—the horse, its caparison, and the rider's armour—from those used in the actual battle. Both the armour and harness survive, and are kept at the Royal Armoury in Madrid. It was acquired by the Museo del Prado in 1827.. 
Admiral David Glasgow Farragut. Author Name: Augustus Saint-Gaudens. . . Admiral David Glasgow Farragut, also known as the Admiral Farragut Monument, is an outdoor bronze sculpture of David Farragut by sculptor Augustus Saint-Gaudens and architect Stanford White, located in Madison Square in Manhattan, New York. The statue, cast in 1880 and dedicated on May 25, 1881, is set on a Coopersberg (Pennsylvania) black granite pedestal.A 1910 bronze bust from the sculpture is held at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.. Admiral David Glasgow Farragut, also known as the Admiral Farragut Monument, is an outdoor bronze sculpture of David Farragut by sculptor Augustus Saint-Gaudens and architect Stanford White, located in Madison Square in Manhattan, New York. The statue, cast in 1880 and dedicated on May 25, 1881, is set on a Coopersberg (Pennsylvania) black granite pedestal. A 1910 bronze bust from the sculpture is held at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.. 
Lux Mundi. Author Name: Tom Tsuchiya. . . Lux Mundi (Latin for "Light of the World") is a 15.8 meter (52 ft) tall statue of Jesus at Solid Rock Church, a Christian nondenominational church near Monroe, Ohio, in the United States. Designed by Tom Tsuchiya, Lux Mundi replaced the statue King of Kings which was struck by lightning and destroyed in 2010.. Lux Mundi (Latin for "Light of the World") is a 15.8 meter (52 ft) tall statue of Jesus at Solid Rock Church, a Christian nondenominational church near Monroe, Ohio, in the United States. Designed by Tom Tsuchiya, Lux Mundi replaced the statue King of Kings which was struck by lightning and destroyed in 2010.. 
Brigadier General Thaddeus Kosciuszko. Author Name: Popiel, Antoni. . . Brigadier General Thaddeus Kosciuszko is a bronze statue by Antoni Popiel.It was dedicated by William Howard Taft, on May 11, 1910.It is located in Lafayette Park, Washington, D.C.A copy of the monument was unveiled in Warsaw, Poland in 2010.The statue is listed on the National Register of Historic Places, as a part of American Revolution Statuary in Washington, D.C.. Brigadier General Thaddeus Kosciuszko is a bronze statue by Antoni Popiel.It was dedicated by William Howard Taft, on May 11, 1910. It is located in Lafayette Park, Washington, D.C. A copy of the monument was unveiled in Warsaw, Poland in 2010. The statue is listed on the National Register of Historic Places, as a part of American Revolution Statuary in Washington, D.C.. 
The Rhinoceros. Author Name: Albrecht Dürer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Dürer's Rhinoceros is the name commonly given to a woodcut executed by German painter and printmaker Albrecht Dürer in 1515. The image was based on a written description and brief sketch by an unknown artist of an Indian rhinoceros that had arrived in Lisbon earlier that year. Dürer never saw the actual rhinoceros, which was the first living example seen in Europe since Roman times. In late 1515, the King of Portugal, Manuel I, sent the animal as a gift for Pope Leo X, but it died in a shipwreck off the coast of Italy in early 1516. A live rhinoceros was not seen again in Europe until a second specimen, named Abada, arrived from India at the court of Sebastian of Portugal in 1577, being later inherited by Philip II of Spain around 1580.. Dürer's Rhinoceros is the name commonly given to a woodcut executed by German painter and printmaker Albrecht Dürer in 1515. The image was based on a written description and brief sketch by an unknown artist of an Indian rhinoceros that had arrived in Lisbon earlier that year. Dürer never saw the actual rhinoceros, which was the first living example seen in Europe since Roman times. In late 1515, the King of Portugal, Manuel I, sent the animal as a gift for Pope Leo X, but it died in a shipwreck off the coast of Italy in early 1516. A live rhinoceros was not seen again in Europe until a second specimen, named Abada, arrived from India at the court of Sebastian of Portugal in 1577, being later inherited by Philip II of Spain around 1580. Dürer's woodcut is not an entirely accurate representation of a rhinoceros. He depicts an animal with hard plates that cover its body like sheets of armour, with a gorget at the throat, a solid-looking breastplate, and rivets along the seams. He places a small twisted horn on its back, and gives it scaly legs and saw-like rear quarters. None of these features are present in a real rhinoceros, although the Indian rhinoceros does have deep folds in its skin that can look like armor from a distance. Despite its anatomical inaccuracies, Dürer's woodcut became very popular in Europe and was copied many times in the following three centuries. It was regarded by Westerners as a true representation of a rhinoceros into the late 18th century. Eventually, it was supplanted by more realistic drawings and paintings, particularly those of Clara the rhinoceros, who toured Europe in the 1740s and 1750s. It has been said of Dürer's woodcut: "probably no animal picture has exerted such a profound influence on the arts".. 
La Vie. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . La Vie (Zervos I 179) is an oil painting by Pablo Picasso, produced in 1903 during his Blue Period. Scholars agree[who?] that it is one of the most important works Picasso ever created.. La Vie (Zervos I 179) is an oil painting by Pablo Picasso, produced in 1903 during his Blue Period. Scholars agree[who?] that it is one of the most important works Picasso ever created.. 
The Double Dream of Spring. Author Name: Giorgio de Chirico. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Metaphysical_art. . The Double Dream of Spring (also known as Doppio Sogno di Primavera, 1915) is a painting by the Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio de Chirico.The painting depicts apparently related but separate scenes. The scene on the left shows a statue of a man in a frock-coat from behind. The statue appears to be staring contemplatively into an open sky. The two scenes are separated in the middle by a wooden beam, perhaps part of an easel. Near the base of the beam is a blueprint drawing of an interior, in which large arches and a window open onto a landscape including the stick-like figures of two men meeting, and distant mountains. The scene on the right appears to be looking down on the same landscape from a slightly different angle. Above the landscape is the shape of the head of a tailor’s dumm. The Double Dream of Spring (also known as Doppio Sogno di Primavera, 1915) is a painting by the Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio de Chirico. The painting depicts apparently related but separate scenes. The scene on the left shows a statue of a man in a frock-coat from behind. The statue appears to be staring contemplatively into an open sky. The two scenes are separated in the middle by a wooden beam, perhaps part of an easel. Near the base of the beam is a blueprint drawing of an interior, in which large arches and a window open onto a landscape including the stick-like figures of two men meeting, and distant mountains. The scene on the right appears to be looking down on the same landscape from a slightly different angle. Above the landscape is the shape of the head of a tailor’s dummy. Similar dummies appear many times in de Chirico’s work (cf. The Seer). This time the dummy’s head looms over the landscape like a hot air balloon. The title was used by John Ashbery for his 1970 book of poems.. 
Crucifixion. Author Name: Giovanni Bellini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . Crucifixion is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Giovanni Bellini, created around 1455–1460. It is housed in the Museo Correr in Venice.The work was originally in the church of San Salvador of Venice, and is part of the Mantegna-influenced phase of Bellini's early career.. Crucifixion is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Giovanni Bellini, created around 1455–1460. It is housed in the Museo Correr in Venice. The work was originally in the church of San Salvador of Venice, and is part of the Mantegna-influenced phase of Bellini's early career.. 
Echo and Narcissus. Author Name: John William Waterhouse. . . Echo and Narcissus is a painting dating from 1903 by John William Waterhouse. It illustrates the poem Echo and Narcissus from Ovid's Metamorphoses.John William Waterhouse (1847–1917) was an English painter who, because of his style and themes, has been classified as a Pre-Raphaelite, but is more accurately described as a Neo-Classical painter. He painted over 200 works, mainly in the genres of classical mythology, and of historical or literary subjects. One of his common themes is the femme fatale, the woman who ensnares a man.. Echo and Narcissus is a painting dating from 1903 by John William Waterhouse. It illustrates the poem Echo and Narcissus from Ovid's Metamorphoses. John William Waterhouse (1847–1917) was an English painter who, because of his style and themes, has been classified as a Pre-Raphaelite, but is more accurately described as a Neo-Classical painter. He painted over 200 works, mainly in the genres of classical mythology, and of historical or literary subjects. One of his common themes is the femme fatale, the woman who ensnares a man. Echo and Narcissus is in the genre of classical mythology. In Ovid's version of the myth, Narcissus was the son of the river god Cephissus and the nymph Liriope. His parents were told that he would live to an old age if he did not look at himself. He rejected all the nymphs and women who fell in love with him. One of these was the nymph Echo, who was so upset by her rejection that she withdrew from life and wasted away until all that was left was a whisper. Her prayers were heard by the goddess Nemesis who caused Narcissus to fall in love with his own reflection. He continued to look at his reflection until he died. A narcissus flower grew on the spot where he died. The painting is in oil on canvas and measures 109.2 centimetres (43 in) by 189.2 centimetres (74 in). It forms part of the Victorian collection in the Walker Art Gallery in Liverpool, Merseyside, England, having been purchased by the museum in 1903.. 
Première rêverie. Author Name: William-Adolphe Bouguereau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Première rêverie (English: First Reverie), also known in English as Whisperings of Love, is a painting by nineteenth century French artist William-Adolphe Bouguereau. The work was completed in 1889 and is held at the New Orleans Museum of Art.. Première rêverie (English: First Reverie), also known in English as Whisperings of Love, is a painting by nineteenth century French artist William-Adolphe Bouguereau. The work was completed in 1889 and is held at the New Orleans Museum of Art.. 
Tuna Fishing. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Tuna Fishing (Homage to Meissonier) was painted by Salvador Dalí in 1966-1967 and is seen by many as one of Dalí's last masterpieces. Filled chaotically with the violent struggle of the men in the picture and the big fish. A golden knife stabs into the fish and the azure- blue sea becomes red with blood.This painting is a dedication to Jean-Louis-Ernest Meissonier, a 19th-century French painter who specialised in battle scenes.. Tuna Fishing (Homage to Meissonier) was painted by Salvador Dalí in 1966-1967 and is seen by many as one of Dalí's last masterpieces. Filled chaotically with the violent struggle of the men in the picture and the big fish. A golden knife stabs into the fish and the azure- blue sea becomes red with blood. This painting is a dedication to Jean-Louis-Ernest Meissonier, a 19th-century French painter who specialised in battle scenes.. 
Coronation of the Virgin. Author Name: Fra' Filippo Lippi, O.Carm.. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Coronation of the Virgin (in Italian Incoronazione Maringhi) is a painting of the Coronation of the Virgin by the Italian Renaissance master Filippo Lippi, in the Uffizi, Florence.. The Coronation of the Virgin (in Italian Incoronazione Maringhi) is a painting of the Coronation of the Virgin by the Italian Renaissance master Filippo Lippi, in the Uffizi, Florence.. 
Blue Dress Park. Author Name: Druecke, Paul. . . Blue Dress Park is the name given to a derelict piece of urban space in the city of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, by conceptual artist Paul Druecke in 2000. The site is located on the northwest edge of the Holton Street Bridge, where it connects the Milwaukee East Side neighborhoods of Brewer's Hill, Riverwest, and Brady Street, and is a large concrete expanse surrounded by a low iron fence. In the summer of 2000, Druecke staged a "christening celebration" with champagne and chamber music on the site, temporarily transforming it into a "crowded meeting place".. Blue Dress Park is the name given to a derelict piece of urban space in the city of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, by conceptual artist Paul Druecke in 2000. The site is located on the northwest edge of the Holton Street Bridge, where it connects the Milwaukee East Side neighborhoods of Brewer's Hill, Riverwest, and Brady Street, and is a large concrete expanse surrounded by a low iron fence. In the summer of 2000, Druecke staged a "christening celebration" with champagne and chamber music on the site, temporarily transforming it into a "crowded meeting place". In 2010, Druecke formed a collaborative effort with Los Angeles-based artist Sara Daleiden, a founding member of the LA Urban Rangers, to create the Friends of Blue Dress Park. Board members include Anna-Marie Opgenorth, Brian Reilly, John Riepenhoff, Wendy Slocum, Karin Wolf, and Steve Wetzel. Druecke serves as Creative Liaison for the informal organization. The Friends of Blue Dress Park held "Condiments Provided," a community gathering and brat tasting event on May 21, 2011.. 
Crucifixion. Author Name: Masaccio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . Crucifixion is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Masaccio.A chapel in Santa Maria del Carmine in Pisa commissioned an altarpiece from Masaccio on February 19, 1426 for the sum of 80 florins. Payment for the work was recorded on December 26 of that year. The altarpiece was dismantled and dispersed in the 18th century, but an attempted reconstruction was made possible due to a detailed description of the work by Vasari. Eleven pieces have been found as of 2010, and they are insufficient to reliably reconstruct the whole work. The Crucifixion is one of the surviving panels connected with the Pisa Altarpiece.. Crucifixion is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Masaccio. A chapel in Santa Maria del Carmine in Pisa commissioned an altarpiece from Masaccio on February 19, 1426 for the sum of 80 florins. Payment for the work was recorded on December 26 of that year. The altarpiece was dismantled and dispersed in the 18th century, but an attempted reconstruction was made possible due to a detailed description of the work by Vasari. Eleven pieces have been found as of 2010, and they are insufficient to reliably reconstruct the whole work. The Crucifixion is one of the surviving panels connected with the Pisa Altarpiece. The Crucifixion was placed above the central panel of the altarpiece, which represented the Virgin enthroned with the baby Jesus on her lap, flanked by 2 pairs of angels. Although the panel unnaturalistically represents the narrative against a gold background (a medieval formula for representing sacred scenes), Masaccio creates an effect of reality by depicting the event from below, as the viewer standing before the altar truly saw it. In this way, he attempts to tie the viewer to the scene, to make the sacred accessible to the ordinary Christian. This is not the crucifixion in the mosaic of the dormition. 
Metaphysical Interior with Large Factory. Author Name: Giorgio de Chirico. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Metaphysical_art. . Metaphysical Interior with Large Factory (1916–17) is a painting by the Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio de Chirico. It is part of a series that extended late into de Chirico’s career.Like the other works in this series it depicts a small room cluttered with surreal objects. This time the main focus is a framed picture of a factory complex.. Metaphysical Interior with Large Factory (1916–17) is a painting by the Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio de Chirico. It is part of a series that extended late into de Chirico’s career. Like the other works in this series it depicts a small room cluttered with surreal objects. This time the main focus is a framed picture of a factory complex.. 
Drawbridge in Nieuw Amsterdam. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Drawbridge in Nieuw-Amsterdam is a watercolor created in November, 1883 by Vincent van Gogh in Drente, The Netherlands.. Drawbridge in Nieuw-Amsterdam is a watercolor created in November, 1883 by Vincent van Gogh in Drente, The Netherlands.. 
Upright Motive No. 1: Glenkiln Cross. Author Name: Henry Moore. . Author Movement: Bronze Sculpture, Modernism. . Upright Motive No. 1: Glenkiln Cross is a bronze sculpture by Henry Moore, cast in a number of copies in 1955-56. It was the first of a series of narrow vertical sculptures by Moore, who compared them to totem poles.. Upright Motive No. 1: Glenkiln Cross is a bronze sculpture by Henry Moore, cast in a number of copies in 1955-56. It was the first of a series of narrow vertical sculptures by Moore, who compared them to totem poles.. 
The Rest on the Flight into Egypt. Author Name: Pier Francesco Mola. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Rest on the Flight into Egypt (Late 17th century) is a painting by the Italian Baroque master Pier Francesco Mola (1612–1666), in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City.The scene is based not on any incident in the Bible itself, but on a body of tales or legends that had grown up in the early Middle Ages around the Bible story of the Holy Family fleeing into Egypt for refuge on being warned that Herod the Great was seeking to kill the Christ Child. According to the legend, Joseph and Mary stopped on the flight in a grove of trees; the Holy Child ordered the trees to bend down so that Joseph could take fruit from them, and then ordered a spring of water to gush forth from the roots so that his parents could quench their thirst. The basic story took on many extra details during . The Rest on the Flight into Egypt (Late 17th century) is a painting by the Italian Baroque master Pier Francesco Mola (1612–1666), in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. The scene is based not on any incident in the Bible itself, but on a body of tales or legends that had grown up in the early Middle Ages around the Bible story of the Holy Family fleeing into Egypt for refuge on being warned that Herod the Great was seeking to kill the Christ Child. According to the legend, Joseph and Mary stopped on the flight in a grove of trees; the Holy Child ordered the trees to bend down so that Joseph could take fruit from them, and then ordered a spring of water to gush forth from the roots so that his parents could quench their thirst. The basic story took on many extra details during the centuries. Mola shows the Virgin Mary reaching over to pick up the infant Jesus, with elderly Saint Joseph reclined nearby. The Holy Family enjoys a picnic of fruit. They are surrounded by lush deciduous trees. In the background, an angel leads a donkey to take a drink from the water hole formed by the spring created by Jesus. The ass or donkey is a frequent symbol of the Messiah in Christian iconography. The exact date of the mid-17th Century painting is not known, but is thought by art historian Richard Cocke to be the earliest of his six paintings dealing with the same theme. The painting was part of the Wrightsman Fund's 1993 gift to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and as of January 2011, is on public view.. 
Roto Broil. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Roto Broil is a 1961 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It was one of the consumer goods paintings made in the early 1960s that "made a splash, sold well and immediately polarized the critics.". Roto Broil is a 1961 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It was one of the consumer goods paintings made in the early 1960s that "made a splash, sold well and immediately polarized the critics.". 
Presence of Latin America. Author Name: Gonzalez Camarena, Jorge. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mexican_muralism. . Presencia de América Latina (Presence of Latin America), also known as Integración de América Latina (Integration of Latin America) is a mural painted by Mexican artist Jorge González Camarena between November 1964 and April 1965. The 300-square-meter mural, painted in acrylics on rough stucco, is located in the lobby of the Casa del Arte of the University of Concepción (Ciudad Universitaria de Concepción), in Concepción, Chile. Its principal theme is the unity and brotherhood of the different Latin American cultures.. Presencia de América Latina (Presence of Latin America), also known as Integración de América Latina (Integration of Latin America) is a mural painted by Mexican artist Jorge González Camarena between November 1964 and April 1965. The 300-square-meter mural, painted in acrylics on rough stucco, is located in the lobby of the Casa del Arte of the University of Concepción (Ciudad Universitaria de Concepción), in Concepción, Chile. Its principal theme is the unity and brotherhood of the different Latin American cultures.. 
A Bar at the Folies-Bergère. Author Name: Édouard Manet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . A Bar at the Folies-Bergère (French: Un bar aux Folies Bergère), painted and exhibited at the Paris Salon in 1882, was the last major work by French painter Édouard Manet. It depicts a scene in the Folies Bergère nightclub in Paris. It originally belonged to the composer Emmanuel Chabrier, who was Manet's neighbor, and hung over his piano.. A Bar at the Folies-Bergère (French: Un bar aux Folies Bergère), painted and exhibited at the Paris Salon in 1882, was the last major work by French painter Édouard Manet. It depicts a scene in the Folies Bergère nightclub in Paris. It originally belonged to the composer Emmanuel Chabrier, who was Manet's neighbor, and hung over his piano.. 
Enclosed Field with Peasant. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Enclosed Field with Peasant is an oil painting by Dutch artist Vincent van Gogh, painted in October 1889. It is currently part of the permanent collection at the Indianapolis Museum of Art.. Enclosed Field with Peasant is an oil painting by Dutch artist Vincent van Gogh, painted in October 1889. It is currently part of the permanent collection at the Indianapolis Museum of Art.. 
La Parisienne. Author Name: Pierre-Auguste Renoir. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . La Parisienne is an oil painting by the French artist Pierre-Auguste Renoir, completed in 1874 and now displayed at the National Museum Wales in Cardiff. The work, which was one of seven presented by Renoir at the first Impressionist exhibition in 1874, is often referred to as The Blue Lady and is one of the centre-pieces of the National Museum's art collection.. La Parisienne is an oil painting by the French artist Pierre-Auguste Renoir, completed in 1874 and now displayed at the National Museum Wales in Cardiff. The work, which was one of seven presented by Renoir at the first Impressionist exhibition in 1874, is often referred to as The Blue Lady and is one of the centre-pieces of the National Museum's art collection.. 
Reds Legends of Crosley Field. Author Name: Tom Tsuchiya. . . Reds Legends of Crosley Field is a group of bronze sculptures by artist Tom Tsuchiya, located at the main entrance of Great American Ball Park in Cincinnati, Ohio. The sculptures represent four Crosley Field era Cincinnati Reds players: Ted Kluszewski, Ernie Lombardi, Joe Nuxhall and Frank Robinson. These players were selected by a fan vote conducted by the Cincinnati Reds.. Reds Legends of Crosley Field is a group of bronze sculptures by artist Tom Tsuchiya, located at the main entrance of Great American Ball Park in Cincinnati, Ohio. The sculptures represent four Crosley Field era Cincinnati Reds players: Ted Kluszewski, Ernie Lombardi, Joe Nuxhall and Frank Robinson. These players were selected by a fan vote conducted by the Cincinnati Reds. Kluszewski's statue was unveiled on Opening Day, March 31, 2003, to coincide with the official opening of Great American Ball Park. The statues of Nuxhall and Robinson were dedicated in the summer of that year. Subsequently, Lombardi's statue was unveiled in June 28, 2004.. 
Allegory of Prudence. Author Name: Titian. . . The Allegory of Prudence (c. 1565–1570) is an oil painting attributed to the Italian artist Titian and his assistants. It is in the National Gallery, London.The painting portrays three human heads, each facing in a different direction, above three animal heads, depicting (from left) a wolf, a lion and a dog. The painting is usually interpreted as operating on a number of levels. At the first level, the different ages of the three human heads represent the "Three Ages of Man" (youth, maturity, old age). The different directions in which they are facing reflect a second, wider concept of Time itself as having a past, present and future. This theme is repeated in the animal heads which, according to some traditions, are associated with those categories of time. The third level, from which the. The Allegory of Prudence (c. 1565–1570) is an oil painting attributed to the Italian artist Titian and his assistants. It is in the National Gallery, London. The painting portrays three human heads, each facing in a different direction, above three animal heads, depicting (from left) a wolf, a lion and a dog. The painting is usually interpreted as operating on a number of levels. At the first level, the different ages of the three human heads represent the "Three Ages of Man" (youth, maturity, old age). The different directions in which they are facing reflect a second, wider concept of Time itself as having a past, present and future. This theme is repeated in the animal heads which, according to some traditions, are associated with those categories of time. The third level, from which the painting has acquired its present name, is suggested by a barely visible inscription, EX PRAETERITO/PRAESENS PRUDENTER AGIT/NE FUTURA ACTIONẼ DETURPET (“From the experience of the past, the present acts prudently, lest it spoil future actions”). It may also be that the human faces are actual portraits of the aged Titian, his son Orazio, and a young cousin, Marco Vecellio, who, like Orazio, lived and worked with Titian. Irwin Panofsky, in his classic exposition, suggests that the painting is specifically associated with the negotiations associated with the passing on of Titian’s property to the younger generations, in the light of his approaching death. So, the painting acts as a visual counsel to the three generations to act prudently in the administration of the inheritance. More recently, however, the painting has been explained in quite different ways. Instead of an allegory of prudence, it has been seen as an allegory about sin and penitence. On this view, it amounts to an admission by Titian that his failure to act prudently in his youth and middle age has condemned him to lead a regretful old age. At the other extreme, the painting has been explained as asserting that the prudence which comes with experience and old age is an essential aspect of artistic discrimination and judgement. On this interpretation, the painting therefore acts as a rebuttal of the view that old age is the enemy of artistic achievement. On a more general level, the painting’s depiction of Titian with his assistants Orazio and Marco is also intended as a defence of the prudence of the continuity of the Venetian workshop tradition.. 
The Conspiracy of Claudius Civilis. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Conspiracy of Claudius Civilis is a 1661–62 oil painting by the Dutch painter Rembrandt, which was originally the largest he ever painted, at around five by five metres in the shape of a lunette. The painting was commissioned by the Amsterdam city council for the Town Hall. After the work had been in place briefly, it was returned to Rembrandt, who may have never been paid. Rembrandt drastically cut down the painting to a quarter of the original size to be sold. It is the last secular history painting he finished.. The Conspiracy of Claudius Civilis is a 1661–62 oil painting by the Dutch painter Rembrandt, which was originally the largest he ever painted, at around five by five metres in the shape of a lunette. The painting was commissioned by the Amsterdam city council for the Town Hall. After the work had been in place briefly, it was returned to Rembrandt, who may have never been paid. Rembrandt drastically cut down the painting to a quarter of the original size to be sold. It is the last secular history painting he finished.. 
Arrival of the Ambassadors. Author Name: Vittore Carpaccio. . . The Legend of Saint Ursula (Italian: Storie di sant'Orsola) is a series of large wall-paintings on canvas by the Italian Renaissance artist Vittore Carpaccio, originally created for the Scuola di Sant'Orsola (Ursula) in Venice. They are now in the Gallerie dell'Accademia in Venice.. The Legend of Saint Ursula (Italian: Storie di sant'Orsola) is a series of large wall-paintings on canvas by the Italian Renaissance artist Vittore Carpaccio, originally created for the Scuola di Sant'Orsola (Ursula) in Venice. They are now in the Gallerie dell'Accademia in Venice.. 
Cornflowers. Author Name: Sergei Ivanovich Osipov. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Retrospective Exhibition "Still life of 1950-1990s. The Leningrad School" (Russian: Натюрморт в живописи 1950-1990-х годов. Ленинградская школа) became one of the most notable event in the exhibition live of 1997 year. The Exhibition took place in Saint Petersburg in the Memorial Museum of Nikolai A. Nekrasov. There were exhibited 56 art works from private collections of 25 importrant masters of this genre.. Retrospective Exhibition "Still life of 1950-1990s. The Leningrad School" (Russian: Натюрморт в живописи 1950-1990-х годов. Ленинградская школа) became one of the most notable event in the exhibition live of 1997 year. The Exhibition took place in Saint Petersburg in the Memorial Museum of Nikolai A. Nekrasov. There were exhibited 56 art works from private collections of 25 importrant masters of this genre.. 
The New House. Author Name: John Brack. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Antipodeans. . The New House is a 1953 painting by Australian artist John Brack. The painting depicts a man and a woman standing in front of their fireplace in a room.The work "pervades a sense of flatness, embodied by Brack's smooth application of paint, emphasising the clean, sparse qualities of the room."Previously part of the Grundy collection, the Art Gallery of New South Wales acquired the work in 2013 for A$1.6 million.. The New House is a 1953 painting by Australian artist John Brack. The painting depicts a man and a woman standing in front of their fireplace in a room. The work "pervades a sense of flatness, embodied by Brack's smooth application of paint, emphasising the clean, sparse qualities of the room." Previously part of the Grundy collection, the Art Gallery of New South Wales acquired the work in 2013 for A$1.6 million.. 
The Nativity. Author Name: Sir Edward Burne-Jones, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Aestheticism. . The Nativity is one of a pair of monumental paintings by the Pre-Raphaelite artist Edward Burne-Jones commissioned for the chancel of the church of St John the Apostle, Torquay, England (at 50°27′46″N3°31′28″W﻿ / ﻿50.462656°N 3.524559°W), in 1887. The Gothic Revival church was designed by architect George Edmund Street in the 1860s and decorated by Morris & Co., the decorative arts firm in which Burne-Jones was a partner.. The Nativity is one of a pair of monumental paintings by the Pre-Raphaelite artist Edward Burne-Jones commissioned for the chancel of the church of St John the Apostle, Torquay, England (at 50°27′46″N3°31′28″W﻿ / ﻿50.462656°N 3.524559°W), in 1887. The Gothic Revival church was designed by architect George Edmund Street in the 1860s and decorated by Morris & Co., the decorative arts firm in which Burne-Jones was a partner. St John's sold The Nativity and its companion painting, known as The King and the Shepherd, in 1989 to pay for a new roof for the church (copies were hung in their places). The two paintings were acquired for £1.5 million by composer Andrew Lloyd Webber, a collector of Victorian art. In 1997, Lloyd Webber donated the paintings to the Carnegie Museum of Art in Pittsburgh, United States, where his musical Jesus Christ Superstar had premiered in 1971. In this treatment of the birth of Jesus, Burne-Jones places Mary reclining protectively around the infant Jesus while Joseph looks on. At the left are three angels bearing the symbols of the Passion and Crucifixion, the crown of thorns, a container of myrrh and a chalice. The painting bears an inscription in Latin from the Gallican Psalter (Psalm 11, verse 6) PROPTER MISERIAM INOPUM ET GEMITUM PAUPERIS NUNC EXSURGAM DICIT DOMINUS ["Because of the misery of the poor and the groaning of the needy, now will I arise, saith the Lord"].Several studies for The Nativity have survived. A pencil drawing sold at Sotheby's New York in 2012 places Joseph on the right, while an 1887 pastel sketch in the Garman-Ryan Collection at The New Art Gallery Walsall shows the final composition but a very different colour palette.The position of Mary and Jesus echoes Burne-Jones' design for a bronze relief of the Nativity of 1879. The relief was commissioned by George Howard, 9th Earl of Carlisle as part of a monument to his parents for Lanercost Priory, Cumbria. A drawing of this design is in the Fitzwilliam Museum.. 
The Defeat of the Floating Batteries at Gibraltar. Author Name: John Singleton Copley. . . The Defeat of the Floating Batteries at Gibraltar (also called The Siege of Gibraltar, The Siege and Relief of Gibraltar or The Repulse of the Floating Batteries at Gibraltar) is the title of a 1791 oil-on-canvas painting by Boston-born American artist John Singleton Copley. It depicts the defeat of the floating batteries at Gibraltar during the Great Siege of Gibraltar. The Governor of Gibraltar, General George Augustus Eliott, is on horseback pointing to the rescue of the defeated Spanish sailors by the British.. The Defeat of the Floating Batteries at Gibraltar (also called The Siege of Gibraltar, The Siege and Relief of Gibraltar or The Repulse of the Floating Batteries at Gibraltar) is the title of a 1791 oil-on-canvas painting by Boston-born American artist John Singleton Copley. It depicts the defeat of the floating batteries at Gibraltar during the Great Siege of Gibraltar. The Governor of Gibraltar, General George Augustus Eliott, is on horseback pointing to the rescue of the defeated Spanish sailors by the British.. 
Silver Dawn. Author Name: Izquierdo, Manuel. . . Silver Dawn is an outdoor 1980 stainless steel sculpture by Spanish American artist Manuel Izquierdo, installed at Wallace Park in northwest Portland, Oregon, in the United States.. Silver Dawn is an outdoor 1980 stainless steel sculpture by Spanish American artist Manuel Izquierdo, installed at Wallace Park in northwest Portland, Oregon, in the United States.. 
View of the World from 9th Avenue. Author Name: Saul Steinberg. . . View of the World from 9th Avenue (sometimes A Parochial New Yorker's View of the World, A New Yorker's View of the World or simply View of the World) is a 1976 illustration by Saul Steinberg that served as the cover of the March 29, 1976, edition of The New Yorker. The work presents the view from Manhattan of the rest of the world showing Manhattan as the center of the world.. View of the World from 9th Avenue (sometimes A Parochial New Yorker's View of the World, A New Yorker's View of the World or simply View of the World) is a 1976 illustration by Saul Steinberg that served as the cover of the March 29, 1976, edition of The New Yorker. The work presents the view from Manhattan of the rest of the world showing Manhattan as the center of the world. View of the World has been parodied by Ted Rall, Columbia Pictures, The New Yorker, The Economist and Mad Magazine, among others. The work has been imitated and printed without authorization in a variety of ways. The Columbia parody led to a ruling by the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York in Steinberg v. Columbia Pictures Industries, Inc. in favor of Steinberg because of copyright violations by Columbia Pictures. The work is regarded as one of the greatest magazine covers of recent generations and is studied by art students around the world.. 
Désastre. Author Name: Frankétienne. . . Désastre (12 janvier 2010) is an artwork of Haitian artist Frankétienne. This acrylic on canvas was painted between 15 and 16 January 2010, the same week the 2010 earthquake hit Port-au-Prince, Haiti's capital city. The artwork represents the victims below the city's wreckage.It was shown to the public for the last time during the exposition "Pour la memoire et la lumière" ("For memory and light") promoted by the foundation Ayiti Bel at the Hotel NH Haiti El Rancho, in Pétionville, Haití, between 11–25 April 2014.Later, it was acquired by a private collector.[citation needed],. Désastre (12 janvier 2010) is an artwork of Haitian artist Frankétienne. This acrylic on canvas was painted between 15 and 16 January 2010, the same week the 2010 earthquake hit Port-au-Prince, Haiti's capital city. The artwork represents the victims below the city's wreckage. It was shown to the public for the last time during the exposition "Pour la memoire et la lumière" ("For memory and light") promoted by the foundation Ayiti Bel at the Hotel NH Haiti El Rancho, in Pétionville, Haití, between 11–25 April 2014. Later, it was acquired by a private collector.[citation needed],. 
Christ Giving the Keys to St. Peter. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Christ Giving the Keys to St. Peter is a painting by the Flemish artist Peter Paul Rubens, completed in 1614. It is now in the Gemäldegalerie in Berlin.. Christ Giving the Keys to St. Peter is a painting by the Flemish artist Peter Paul Rubens, completed in 1614. It is now in the Gemäldegalerie in Berlin.. 
The Prodigal Son in the Brothel. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Prodigal Son in the Brothel is a painting by the Dutch master Rembrandt. It is housed in the Gemäldegalerie Alte Meister of Dresden, Germany. It is signed "REMBRANDT F.".It portrays two people who had been identified as Rembrandt himself and his wife Saskia. In the Protestant contemporary world, the theme of the prodigal son was a frequent subject for works of art due to its moral background. Rembrandt himself painted a Return of the Prodigal Son in 1669.. The Prodigal Son in the Brothel is a painting by the Dutch master Rembrandt. It is housed in the Gemäldegalerie Alte Meister of Dresden, Germany. It is signed "REMBRANDT F.". It portrays two people who had been identified as Rembrandt himself and his wife Saskia. In the Protestant contemporary world, the theme of the prodigal son was a frequent subject for works of art due to its moral background. Rembrandt himself painted a Return of the Prodigal Son in 1669. The left side of the canvas was cut, perhaps by the artist himself, to remove secondary characters and focus the observer's attention on the main theme.. 
Les quatre évangélistes. Author Name: Jacob Jordaens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Flemish_Baroque_painting. . The Four Evangelists (French: Les quatre évangélistes) is an oil on canvas painting by the Flemish Baroque artist Jacob Jordaens, completed in 1625. The painting is 133 by 118 centimeters. and is in the Musée du Louvre, Paris, France.. The Four Evangelists (French: Les quatre évangélistes) is an oil on canvas painting by the Flemish Baroque artist Jacob Jordaens, completed in 1625. The painting is 133 by 118 centimeters. and is in the Musée du Louvre, Paris, France.. 
Ray of Light. Author Name: Barton Rubenstein. . . Ray of Light, is a public artwork by artist Barton Rubenstein, located on the north side of the Redwood Shores Library, in Redwood City, California, USA. The sculpture, constructed from stainless steel, was commissioned as part of the G.R. Cress Bird Bath Project.. Ray of Light, is a public artwork by artist Barton Rubenstein, located on the north side of the Redwood Shores Library, in Redwood City, California, USA. The sculpture, constructed from stainless steel, was commissioned as part of the G.R. Cress Bird Bath Project.. 
The Rape of Proserpina. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Rape of Proserpina is a large Baroque marble sculptural group by Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini, executed between 1621 and 1622. Bernini was only 23 years old at its completion. It depicts the Abduction of Proserpina, where Proserpina is seized and taken to the underworld by the god Pluto.. The Rape of Proserpina is a large Baroque marble sculptural group by Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini, executed between 1621 and 1622. Bernini was only 23 years old at its completion. It depicts the Abduction of Proserpina, where Proserpina is seized and taken to the underworld by the god Pluto.. 
Victory Boogie Woogie. Author Name: Piet Mondrian. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/De_Stijl. . Victory Boogie-Woogie is the last, unfinished, work by the Dutch abstract painter Piet Mondrian. Left incomplete in 1944, since 1998 it has been in the collection of the Gemeentemuseum in The Hague. It was purchased at a cost of 80 million guilders (approximately 35 million euros) from the American collector Samuel Irving Newhouse, who purchased the work from Emily and Burton Tremaine for $12 million USD in the mid 1980s. It was bought by the Stichting Nationaal Fonds Kunstbezit (National Art Foundation) through a gift from the Dutch Central Bank, commemorating the introduction of the euro. This amount of money spent on the gift raised questions in the Dutch House of Representatives.. Victory Boogie-Woogie is the last, unfinished, work by the Dutch abstract painter Piet Mondrian. Left incomplete in 1944, since 1998 it has been in the collection of the Gemeentemuseum in The Hague. It was purchased at a cost of 80 million guilders (approximately 35 million euros) from the American collector Samuel Irving Newhouse, who purchased the work from Emily and Burton Tremaine for $12 million USD in the mid 1980s. It was bought by the Stichting Nationaal Fonds Kunstbezit (National Art Foundation) through a gift from the Dutch Central Bank, commemorating the introduction of the euro. This amount of money spent on the gift raised questions in the Dutch House of Representatives.. 
Daybreak. Author Name: Maxfield Parrish. . . Daybreak is a painting by Maxfield Parrish (1870–1966) made in 1922. Daybreak is regarded as the most popular art print of the 20th century, based on number of prints made: one for every four American homes. According to The National Museum of American Illustration, it has outsold Andy Warhol's Campbell's Soup Cans and Da Vinci's Last Supper. It is still in print.. Daybreak is a painting by Maxfield Parrish (1870–1966) made in 1922. Daybreak is regarded as the most popular art print of the 20th century, based on number of prints made: one for every four American homes. According to The National Museum of American Illustration, it has outsold Andy Warhol's Campbell's Soup Cans and Da Vinci's Last Supper. It is still in print. Parrish referred to Daybreak as his "great painting", the epitome of his work. Measuring 26.5 by 45 inches (67.3 cm × 114 cm), the painting employs a formal layout similar to a stage set, with two feminine figures. Painted using preparatory photographs, the models were his regular models, Kitty Owen (granddaughter of William Jennings Bryan), Parrish's daughter Jean, and Susan Lewin. Only two figures appear in the completed painting, though pencil studies indicate that the artist originally intended a third near the righthand column. The composition is arranged on the principle of "dynamic symmetry" popularized by Jay Hambidge.. 
Self-portrait. Author Name: Judith Leyster. . . Self-portrait by Judith Leyster is an oil painting in the collection of the National Gallery of Art that was offered in 1633 as a masterpiece to the Haarlem Guild of St. Luke. It was attributed for centuries to Frans Hals and was only properly attributed upon acquisition by the museum in 1949.. Self-portrait by Judith Leyster is an oil painting in the collection of the National Gallery of Art that was offered in 1633 as a masterpiece to the Haarlem Guild of St. Luke. It was attributed for centuries to Frans Hals and was only properly attributed upon acquisition by the museum in 1949.. 
Ovid among the Scythians. Author Name: Eugène Delacroix. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . Ovid among the Scythians (1859 and 1862) is the title of two oil paintings by French artist Eugène Delacroix. The less famous second version was painted to integrate the figures and landscape and rectified the problems of scale of the first version, which had an unusual composition and strange scale of the characters, provoking negative criticism, even among Delacroix's admirers such as Baudelaire and Gautier, although artists like Edgar Degas were deeply impressed.. Ovid among the Scythians (1859 and 1862) is the title of two oil paintings by French artist Eugène Delacroix. The less famous second version was painted to integrate the figures and landscape and rectified the problems of scale of the first version, which had an unusual composition and strange scale of the characters, provoking negative criticism, even among Delacroix's admirers such as Baudelaire and Gautier, although artists like Edgar Degas were deeply impressed. Delacroix painted this subject first in 1844 as part of the decorations for the ceiling of the Library of the Palais Bourbon in Paris. They depict the life of the Ancient Roman poet Ovid when exiled by the Emperor Augustus to the Black Sea port of Tomis, in what was then part of Scythia and is now south east Romania, where he spent his last eight years and wrote poems such as Tristia and Epistulae ex Ponto. The Scythians were an ancient Iranian people whose way of life was described by Herodotus in his Histories as "nomadic" and Ovid himself called them a "wild tribe". However, with its cultured man standing before barbarous people, the 1859 picture show the Scythians treating the poet with sympathy and curiosity, and is a fine treatment of the theme of civilisation confronted with barbarity. Henri Loyrette wrote: The first version was exhibited in the Paris Salon of 1859, the last in which Delacroix participated. The composition reinterprets ideas that Delacroix had previously used in decorative compositions such as The Massacre at Chios, Death of Sardanapalus and Entry of the Crusaders in Constantinople. At the time of its exhibition, the landscape with its mountains was "universally" praised, while the mare in the foreground was thought strange by some. Théophile Gautier, for example, admired the painting, but ironically called the mare la femelle du cheval de Troie ("the female of the trojan horse"). Maxime Du Camp was the author of the harshest criticism, calling the painting "a spectacle of irremissible decadence" and advising the painter "to return to the literary works that he loves and to the music for which he was certainly born". Baudelaire, in his last Salon criticism, called the painting "one of these amazing works" and saying "Delacroix knows the design and painting", and also wrote a long essay on the life of an exiled poet and also quoting Chateaubriand's epic Les Martyrs to evoke "the landscape, its solitude, its calm charm". Zacharie Astruc, in his first Salon criticism, praised all the details in the picture: Ovid ("what noble elegance!"); the mare ("what color and air around it!"); the dog, which made him think about classical sculpture; the water ("a strange beauty"); and, above all, the landscape. In the catalog, by Delacroix himself, was written: "Some examine him [Ovid] with interest, others go home and offer wild fruit and mare's milk, etc., etc." The wildness and the misunderstood genius were key concepts in Romanticism and are very well portrayed in these two paintings by Delacroix. The second version, contrary to what one might think, is not an oil sketch but a completed version which develops many elements of the London work. Delacroix painted it with more vivid colors, replaced the barbarian with a shield on the back by a woman bringing food, and also closely integrated the figures and landscape in a manner that is more in keeping with a historical landscape. It was painted a year before his death, in 1862, most probably for a private collector. It was given to Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, in honour of Philippe de Montebello, in 2008. According to Gary Tinterow, the Metropolitan’s curator of 19th-century, Modern and contemporary art: "this is his late, final statement on a theme that interested him his whole life.". 
The Wounded Angel. Author Name: Hugo Simberg. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Symbolism_(arts). . The Wounded Angel (Finnish: Haavoittunut enkeli) (1903) is a painting by Finnish symbolist painter Hugo Simberg. It is one of the most recognizable of Simberg's works, and was voted Finland's "national painting" in a vote held by the Ateneum art museum in 2006.Like other Simberg works, the atmosphere is melancholic: the angelic central figure with her bandaged forehead and bloodied wing, the sombre clothing of her two youthful bearers. The direct gaze of the right-hand figure touches the viewer.. The Wounded Angel (Finnish: Haavoittunut enkeli) (1903) is a painting by Finnish symbolist painter Hugo Simberg. It is one of the most recognizable of Simberg's works, and was voted Finland's "national painting" in a vote held by the Ateneum art museum in 2006. Like other Simberg works, the atmosphere is melancholic: the angelic central figure with her bandaged forehead and bloodied wing, the sombre clothing of her two youthful bearers. The direct gaze of the right-hand figure touches the viewer. The procession passes through a recognisable landscape, that of Eläintarha, Helsinki, with Töölönlahti Bay in the background. The same road still skirts Töölönlahti Bay today. In Hugo Simberg’s time, the park was a popular spot for leisure-time activities among the working classes. At the time, many charity institutions were located in Eläintarha park; in The Wounded Angel the healthy boys are carrying the injured girl towards the Blind Girls’ School and the Home for Cripples. She clutches a bunch of snowdrops, symbolic of healing and rebirth. Simberg himself declined to offer any deconstruction, suggesting that the viewer draw their own conclusions. However it is known that Simberg had been suffering from meningitis, and that the painting was a source of strength during his recovery. This can also be read metaphorically: meningitis is known to cause neck stiffness, lethargy and light sensitivity, each of which is exhibited by the central figure. If read as lungs rather than wings, such a diagnosis even explains the minor injury, as tuberculor meningitis causes abrasions to the upper lungs. When Simberg was asked to paint frescoes for the Tampere Cathedral in 1905–06, one was a larger version of The Wounded Angel, his favorite painting.. 
Untitled. Author Name: Barney Bright. . . Untitled, is a public artwork by American artist Barney Bright, located at the Jeffersonville Township Public Library in Jeffersonville, Indiana, United States. Untitled was originally surveyed as part of the Smithsonian's Save Outdoor Sculpture! survey in 1993. This abstract sculpture represents the Devonian time period.. Untitled, is a public artwork by American artist Barney Bright, located at the Jeffersonville Township Public Library in Jeffersonville, Indiana, United States. Untitled was originally surveyed as part of the Smithsonian's Save Outdoor Sculpture! survey in 1993. This abstract sculpture represents the Devonian time period.. 
Salvator Mundi. Author Name: Leonardo da Vinci. . . Salvator Mundi is a painting of Christ as Salvator Mundi recently attributed to Leonardo da Vinci, who is known to have painted the subject. It was lost and later rediscovered, and restored and exhibited in 2011. The painting shows Christ, in Renaissance garb, giving a benediction with his raised right hand and crossed fingers while holding a crystal sphere in his left hand.. Salvator Mundi is a painting of Christ as Salvator Mundi recently attributed to Leonardo da Vinci, who is known to have painted the subject. It was lost and later rediscovered, and restored and exhibited in 2011. The painting shows Christ, in Renaissance garb, giving a benediction with his raised right hand and crossed fingers while holding a crystal sphere in his left hand.. 
A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte. Author Name: Georges Seurat. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neo-impressionism. . A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte – 1884 (French: Un dimanche après-midi à l'Île de la Grande Jatte – 1884) is one of Georges Seurat's most famous works, and is an example of pointillism.. A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte – 1884 (French: Un dimanche après-midi à l'Île de la Grande Jatte – 1884) is one of Georges Seurat's most famous works, and is an example of pointillism.. 
The Ghost of Vermeer of Delft Which Can Be Used As a Table. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The Ghost of Vermeer of Delft Which Can Be Used As a Table is a small Surrealist oil painting by Salvador Dalí. Its full title is The Ghost of Vermeer of Delft Which Can Be Used as a Table (Phenomenologic Theory of Furniture-Nutrition). It makes reference to The Art of Painting by Johannes Vermeer, a famous seventeenth-century work in which a painter, thought to be a self-portrait of Vermeer, is depicted with his back to us, in distinctive costume. It is one of a number of paintings expressive of Dalí's enormous admiration for Vermeer.. The Ghost of Vermeer of Delft Which Can Be Used As a Table is a small Surrealist oil painting by Salvador Dalí. Its full title is The Ghost of Vermeer of Delft Which Can Be Used as a Table (Phenomenologic Theory of Furniture-Nutrition). It makes reference to The Art of Painting by Johannes Vermeer, a famous seventeenth-century work in which a painter, thought to be a self-portrait of Vermeer, is depicted with his back to us, in distinctive costume. It is one of a number of paintings expressive of Dalí's enormous admiration for Vermeer. Vermeer is represented as a dark spindly figure in a kneeling position. The figure’s outstretched leg serves as a table top surface, on which sits a bottle and a small glass. This leg tapers to a baluster-like stub; there is a shoe nearby. The walls and the distant views of the mountains are based on real views near Dalí's home in Port Lligat. In Vermeer's painting the artist leans on a maulstick, and his hand is painted with an unusual blurriness, perhaps to indicate movement. In Dalí's painting Vermeer rests the same arm on a crutch.. It is unsigned and undated but known to have been completed c.1934. It is currently on display at the Salvador Dalí Museum in St. Petersburg, Florida, on loan from the E. and A. Reynolds Morse collection.. 
Mystical Marriage of St. Catherine. Author Name: Filippino Lippi. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Mystical Marriage of St. Catherine is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Filippino Lippi, dated 1503. It is housed in the Isolani Chapel of the Basilica di San Domenico, a church of the Dominican Order in Bologna.. Mystical Marriage of St. Catherine is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Filippino Lippi, dated 1503. It is housed in the Isolani Chapel of the Basilica di San Domenico, a church of the Dominican Order in Bologna. The painting pivots around the scene of the mystical marriage of St. Catherine of Alexandria, while around her a sacra conversazione is held. Their participants are, on the right, St. Paul and St. Sebastian and, on the left, St. Peter and St. John the Baptist. The scene setting is rather conventional, though Lippi's usual taste for bizarre decorations can be seen in details such as the harpy sculpted on a corner of Virgin's throne or the fragment of the wheel on which St. Catherine would have been tortured. Also the architecture in the background is rather classical.. 
The Ideal City. Author Name: Carnevale, Fra. . . The Ideal City is a 15th-century painting usually attributed to the architect and artist Fra Carnavale. The Ideal City is one of three related paintings, the others are in Urbino (Ideal City) and Germany (Urban Perspective). The painting was most likely executed for the Ducal Palace, Urbino of Federico da Montefeltro, duke of Urbino. There is no indisputable evidence for this, but Carnevale was one of three architects used for renovations to the palace. Furthermore, in an inventory of the palace completed in 1599 there is mention of a "long rectangular painting depicting an antique but beautiful perspective from the hand of Carnavale". The panels might have been spalliere, forming part of a decorative scheme set into the wainscoting or furnishings, a style common in Italy in the late 15th . The Ideal City is a 15th-century painting usually attributed to the architect and artist Fra Carnavale. The Ideal City is one of three related paintings, the others are in Urbino (Ideal City) and Germany (Urban Perspective). The painting was most likely executed for the Ducal Palace, Urbino of Federico da Montefeltro, duke of Urbino. There is no indisputable evidence for this, but Carnevale was one of three architects used for renovations to the palace. Furthermore, in an inventory of the palace completed in 1599 there is mention of a "long rectangular painting depicting an antique but beautiful perspective from the hand of Carnavale". The panels might have been spalliere, forming part of a decorative scheme set into the wainscoting or furnishings, a style common in Italy in the late 15th century. However, the painting is attributed by others to Francesco di Giorgio Martini, partly due to the latter's greater significance at the Urbino court and because the painting refers to architectural themes he refers to, derived from Leon Battista Alberti's slightly earlier published treatise, in his own architectural treatise.. 
The Melancholy of Departure. Author Name: Giorgio de Chirico. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Metaphysical_art. . The Melancholy of Departure (1916) is a painting by the Greek-Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio de Chirico. This painting was created after de Chirico returned to Italy from Paris to join the Italian Army in World War I.This painting depicts a random cluster of objects used to make paintings, and an easel which holds up a triangular map. The map shows a channel between two land masses with outlines of different routes. The surroundings are the inside of a room at night. The room has an open archway through which can be seen a tower.. The Melancholy of Departure (1916) is a painting by the Greek-Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio de Chirico. This painting was created after de Chirico returned to Italy from Paris to join the Italian Army in World War I. During this time de Chirico was moving away from the bright open scenes of his previous work. He was now focusing on more abstract combinations of objects and indoor settings, and seeking to paint the hidden meanings behind the surface of things. The themes of travel and departure are present in much of de Chirico's canon, as seen in his many paintings of trains and railways stations. This painting depicts a random cluster of objects used to make paintings, and an easel which holds up a triangular map. The map shows a channel between two land masses with outlines of different routes. The surroundings are the inside of a room at night. The room has an open archway through which can be seen a tower. This is the second painting by de Chirico by this title after his 1914 work Gare Montparnasse (The Melancholy of Departure). In 1987 the American jazz musicians Mark Isham and Art Lande released a song titled “The Melancholy of Departure” on their collaborative album We Begin.. 
Lamentation over the Dead Christ. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Lamentation over the Dead Christ with Saints is a painting of the Lamentation of Christ by the Italian Renaissance artist Sandro Botticelli, dated between 1490-1495. It is housed in the Museo Poldi Pezzoli of Milan.The composition is pyramidal, with tightly connected figures. At the same times, it evocates the shape of a cross, culminating in Joseph of Arimathea, who shows the crown of thorns and the nails.. The Lamentation over the Dead Christ with Saints is a painting of the Lamentation of Christ by the Italian Renaissance artist Sandro Botticelli, dated between 1490-1495. It is housed in the Museo Poldi Pezzoli of Milan. The composition is pyramidal, with tightly connected figures. At the same times, it evocates the shape of a cross, culminating in Joseph of Arimathea, who shows the crown of thorns and the nails.. 
Modern Rome. Author Name: Giovanni Paolo Panini. . . Picture Gallery with Views of Modern Rome or simply Modern Rome is a 1757 painting by Italian artist Giovanni Paolo Panini. It is currently owned and on display at the Museum of Fine Art in Boston. The painting shows the arrangement of paintings originally commissioned by Count de Stainville, later the Duke de Choiseul. He was the ambassador to Rome from between 1753 and 1757. The Duke is seated on an armchair, in the painting. Among some of the works depicted in this work are, Michelangelo's Moses, Bernini's statute of Constantine, David, Apollo and Daphne. The fountains Bernini designed are also featured in the painting. The painting is the pendant to Ancient Rome (painting).. Picture Gallery with Views of Modern Rome or simply Modern Rome is a 1757 painting by Italian artist Giovanni Paolo Panini. It is currently owned and on display at the Museum of Fine Art in Boston. The painting shows the arrangement of paintings originally commissioned by Count de Stainville, later the Duke de Choiseul. He was the ambassador to Rome from between 1753 and 1757. The Duke is seated on an armchair, in the painting. Among some of the works depicted in this work are, Michelangelo's Moses, Bernini's statute of Constantine, David, Apollo and Daphne. The fountains Bernini designed are also featured in the painting. The painting is the pendant to Ancient Rome (painting).. 
A Waterfall in a Rocky Landscape. Author Name: Jacob van Ruisdael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_Golden_Age_painting. . A Waterfall in a Rocky Landscape (c. 1660s) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch landscape painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the National Gallery.Signed in full, "J. Ruysdael" ; canvas, 40 1/2 inches by 34 inches. Engraved in mezzotint by J. G. Prestel. Sale. Count von Brabeck and Count Andreas von Stolberg of Soder, Hanover, October 31, 1859, No. 235 (£1187 : 15 : 6, for the National Gallery). In the National Gallery, London, 1906 catalogue, No. 627.". A Waterfall in a Rocky Landscape (c. 1660s) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch landscape painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the National Gallery. This painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1911, who wrote; "239. LANDSCAPE WITH WATERFALL. The waterfall fills the whole foreground, rushing down over rocks from a broad basin. In the left foreground a fallen tree hangs over the water. In the left middle distance is a wooden bridge, with firs and leafy trees to the left of it. To the right on the bank are leafy trees, one of which has fallen and hangs over the water. Behind the trees on a high bank is a cottage, with firs to the left of it. Dark cloudy sky. [Pendant to 240.] Signed in full, "J. Ruysdael" ; canvas, 40 1/2 inches by 34 inches. Engraved in mezzotint by J. G. Prestel. Sale. Count von Brabeck and Count Andreas von Stolberg of Soder, Hanover, October 31, 1859, No. 235 (£1187 : 15 : 6, for the National Gallery). In the National Gallery, London, 1906 catalogue, No. 627." A Waterfall in a Rocky Landscape is very similar to other paintings he made between 1660 and 1670. Although the depicted landscape is of Scandinavia, Ruisdael was never recorded visiting foreign countries beyond Germany. From the middle of the 1650s he started to make a series of pictures of waterfalls over boulders, surrounded by high pine trees, inspired by the work of the artist Allaert van Everdingen, who had visited Norway and Sweden in 1644.. 
Portrait of Jacques Nayral. Author Name: Albert Gleizes. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_art. . Portrait of Jacques Nayral (also known as Portrait de Jacques Nayral), is a large oil painting created in 1911 by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes (1881–1953). It was exhibited in Paris at the Salon d'Automne of 1911 (no. 609), the Salon de la Section d'Or, 1912 (no. 38), and reproduced in Du "Cubisme" written by Jean Metzinger and Albert Gleizes in 1912, the first and only manifesto on Cubism. Metzinger in 1911 described Gleizes' painting as 'a great portrait'. Portrait of Jacques Nayral, one of Gleizes' first major Cubist works, while still 'readable' in the figurative or representational sense, exemplifies the mobile, dynamic fragmentation of form characteristic of Cubism at the outset of 1911. Highly sophisticated in theory and in practice, this aspect of simultane. Portrait of Jacques Nayral (also known as Portrait de Jacques Nayral), is a large oil painting created in 1911 by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes (1881–1953). It was exhibited in Paris at the Salon d'Automne of 1911 (no. 609), the Salon de la Section d'Or, 1912 (no. 38), and reproduced in Du "Cubisme" written by Jean Metzinger and Albert Gleizes in 1912, the first and only manifesto on Cubism. Metzinger in 1911 described Gleizes' painting as 'a great portrait'. Portrait of Jacques Nayral, one of Gleizes' first major Cubist works, while still 'readable' in the figurative or representational sense, exemplifies the mobile, dynamic fragmentation of form characteristic of Cubism at the outset of 1911. Highly sophisticated in theory and in practice, this aspect of simultaneity would soon become identified with the practices of the Section d'Or. Here Gleizes deploys these techniques in a radical, personal and coherent manner. Jacques Nayral (a pseudonym for Joseph Houot) was a young modernist poet, dramatist, publisher and occasional sports writer, who shared with Gleizes a passion for the theories of Henri Bergson. He was a friend of Gleizes and married his sister Mireille in 1912. Gleizes began work on his portrait in 1910. The interfusion and interrelation between the sitter and the background of the painting reflect Bergson’s concepts about the simultaneity of experience. It was avant-garde works such as this widely exhibited portrait that fed the public outcry against Cubism. "Its scale echoes the large-scale paintings of the official exhibitions, while its style subverts that tradition". (Tate Modern) Purchased in 1979, the painting is exhibited in the permanent collection of the Tate Modern in London.. 
Alexander Dallas Bache Monument. Author Name: Henry Hobson Richardson. . . The Alexander Dallas Bache Monument is the tomb of Alexander Dallas Bache, a noted American scientist and surveyor. Bache died in Newport, Rhode Island in 1867 and was transported to Washington, DC's Congressional Cemetery for burial. American architect Henry Hobson Richardson was commissioned to build a tomb in 1868. The tomb is one of only three examples of a monument designed by Richardson and a rare example of a Richardson structure lacking Romanesque design points.. The Alexander Dallas Bache Monument is the tomb of Alexander Dallas Bache, a noted American scientist and surveyor. Bache died in Newport, Rhode Island in 1867 and was transported to Washington, DC's Congressional Cemetery for burial. American architect Henry Hobson Richardson was commissioned to build a tomb in 1868. The tomb is one of only three examples of a monument designed by Richardson and a rare example of a Richardson structure lacking Romanesque design points.. 
The "Little" Tower of Babel. Author Name: Pieter Bruegel the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_and_Flemish_Renaissance_painting. . The Tower of Babel is the subject of three oil paintings by Pieter Bruegel the Elder. The first, a miniature painted on ivory, was painted while Bruegel was in Rome and is now lost. The two surviving paintings depict the construction of the Tower of Babel, which according to the Book of Genesis in the Bible, was a tower built by a unified, monolingual humanity as a mark of their achievement and to prevent them from scattering: "Then they said, 'Come, let us build ourselves a city, and a tower with its top in the heavens, and let us make a name for ourselves; otherwise we shall be scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth.'" (Genesis 11:4). The person in the foreground is likely Nimrod, who was said to have ordered the construction of the Tower.. The Tower of Babel is the subject of three oil paintings by Pieter Bruegel the Elder. The first, a miniature painted on ivory, was painted while Bruegel was in Rome and is now lost. The two surviving paintings depict the construction of the Tower of Babel, which according to the Book of Genesis in the Bible, was a tower built by a unified, monolingual humanity as a mark of their achievement and to prevent them from scattering: "Then they said, 'Come, let us build ourselves a city, and a tower with its top in the heavens, and let us make a name for ourselves; otherwise we shall be scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth.'" (Genesis 11:4). The person in the foreground is likely Nimrod, who was said to have ordered the construction of the Tower.. 
St. George and the Dragon. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . St. George or St. George and the Dragon is a small painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael. It is housed in the Louvre in Paris. A later version of the same subject is the St. George in the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C.. St. George or St. George and the Dragon is a small painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael. It is housed in the Louvre in Paris. A later version of the same subject is the St. George in the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C.. 
Les Baigneuses. Author Name: Albert Gleizes. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_art. . Les Baigneuses (also known as The Bathers), is an large oil painting created at the outset of 1912 by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes (1881–1953). It was exhibited at the Salon des Indépendants in Paris during the spring of 1912; the Salon de la Société Normande de Peinture Moderne, Rouen, summer 1912; and the Salon de la Section d'Or, autumn 1912. The painting was reproduced in Du «Cubisme», written by Albert Gleizes and Jean Metzinger the same year: the first and only manifesto on Cubism. Les Baigneuses, while still 'readable' in the figurative or representational sense, exemplifies the mobile, dynamic fragmentation of form and multiple perspective characteristic of Cubism at the outset of 1912. Highly sophisticated, both in theory and in practice, this aspect of si. Les Baigneuses (also known as The Bathers), is an large oil painting created at the outset of 1912 by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes (1881–1953). It was exhibited at the Salon des Indépendants in Paris during the spring of 1912; the Salon de la Société Normande de Peinture Moderne, Rouen, summer 1912; and the Salon de la Section d'Or, autumn 1912. The painting was reproduced in Du «Cubisme», written by Albert Gleizes and Jean Metzinger the same year: the first and only manifesto on Cubism. Les Baigneuses, while still 'readable' in the figurative or representational sense, exemplifies the mobile, dynamic fragmentation of form and multiple perspective characteristic of Cubism at the outset of 1912. Highly sophisticated, both in theory and in practice, this aspect of simultaneity would soon become identified with the practices of the Section d'Or group. Gleizes deploys these techniques in "a radical, personal and coherent manner". Purchased in 1937, the painting is exhibited in the permanent collection of the Musée d'Art Moderne de la Ville de Paris.. 
Nude. Author Name: Pierre-Auguste Renoir. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Nude (1910, French: Nu, Serbian: Купачица / Kupačica) is a painting by French impressionist Pierre-Auguste Renoir. It is oil on canvas, and was painted in 1910. In 1996 the estimated worth was about 6 million US Dollars. The painting is currently housed in the National Museum of Serbia in Belgrade. The painting was given to the Serbian people by Prince Paul of Yugoslavia.. Nude (1910, French: Nu, Serbian: Купачица / Kupačica) is a painting by French impressionist Pierre-Auguste Renoir. It is oil on canvas, and was painted in 1910. In 1996 the estimated worth was about 6 million US Dollars. The painting is currently housed in the National Museum of Serbia in Belgrade. The painting was given to the Serbian people by Prince Paul of Yugoslavia.. 
The Butcher's Shop. Author Name: Annibale Carracci. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Butcher's Shop is the title of two paintings by the Italian Baroque painter Annibale Carracci, both dating from the early 1580s. They are now in the collections of Christ Church Picture Gallery, Oxford  and the Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth, Texas.It is claimed that members of the painter's family were used as models. Significant alterations to some figures are revealed by x-rays, and the hand on the edge of the table, now apparently belonging to the old woman, though not in proportion with the rest of her, may have originally have belonged to the butcher to the right of her.. Butcher's Shop is the title of two paintings by the Italian Baroque painter Annibale Carracci, both dating from the early 1580s. They are now in the collections of Christ Church Picture Gallery, Oxford and the Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth, Texas. The paintings are connected to the contemporary Beaneater (Galleria Colonna), as they are very early examples of Italian genre painting. The large size of the Christ Church painting is exceptional for such a subject at this date, and it has been suggested they were commissioned by a butcher's guild, or for use as a sign. Carracci was influenced in his depiction of everyday life subjects by Vincenzo Campi and Bartolomeo Passarotti, whom in fact the Butcher's Shop was originally attributed to. Carracci's ability to adapt his style is demonstrated, making it "lower" when concerning "lower", quasi-satirical subjects like the Mangiafagioli and the Butcher's Shop, while in his more academic works (such as the roughly contemporary Assumption of the Virgin) he was able to use a more finished manner with the same ease. It is claimed that members of the painter's family were used as models. Significant alterations to some figures are revealed by x-rays, and the hand on the edge of the table, now apparently belonging to the old woman, though not in proportion with the rest of her, may have originally have belonged to the butcher to the right of her. The Christ Church painting was in the collections of the Gonzaga Dukes of Mantua and Charles I of England; after reaching Christ church it was for long hung in the college kitchen, before being recognised for what it was in the 20th century.. 
The Last Drop. Author Name: Judith Leyster. . . The Last Drop is an oil painting by Judith Leyster in the John G. Johnson collection of the Philadelphia Museum of Art. It was considered a work by Frans Hals until 1903, when it was noticed that it is signed 'JL*' on the tankard.. The Last Drop is an oil painting by Judith Leyster in the John G. Johnson collection of the Philadelphia Museum of Art. It was considered a work by Frans Hals until 1903, when it was noticed that it is signed 'JL*' on the tankard.. 
Angel of the North. Author Name: Antony Gormley. . . The Angel of the North is a contemporary sculpture, designed by Sir Antony Gormley, located near Gateshead in Tyne and Wear, England.Completed in 1998, it is a steel sculpture of an angel, 20 metres (66 ft) tall, with wings measuring 54 metres (177 ft) across. The wings do not stand straight sideways, but are angled 3.5 degrees forward; Gormley did this to create "a sense of embrace".It stands on a hill on the southern edge of Low Fell, overlooking the A1 and A167 roads into Tyneside, and the East Coast Main Line rail route, south of the site of Team Colliery.. The Angel of the North is a contemporary sculpture, designed by Sir Antony Gormley, located near Gateshead in Tyne and Wear, England. Completed in 1998, it is a steel sculpture of an angel, 20 metres (66 ft) tall, with wings measuring 54 metres (177 ft) across. The wings do not stand straight sideways, but are angled 3.5 degrees forward; Gormley did this to create "a sense of embrace". It stands on a hill on the southern edge of Low Fell, overlooking the A1 and A167 roads into Tyneside, and the East Coast Main Line rail route, south of the site of Team Colliery.. 
Torentje van Drienerlo. Author Name: Wim T. Schippers. . . The Torentje van Drienerlo ([tɔrɛntʲə vɑn drinɛrloː]; Dutch for "Drienerlo Turret") is a 1979 artwork by Dutch artist Wim T. Schippers, located on the campus of the University of Twente in Enschede.. The Torentje van Drienerlo ([tɔrɛntʲə vɑn drinɛrloː]; Dutch for "Drienerlo Turret") is a 1979 artwork by Dutch artist Wim T. Schippers, located on the campus of the University of Twente in Enschede.. 
Punishment of Marsyas. Author Name: Titian. . . The Punishment of Marsyas (also known as The Flaying of Marsyas) is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance artist Titian, painted around 1570-1576. It is currently housed in National Museum in Kroměříž, in the Czech Republic. It's Titian's last finished work.. The Punishment of Marsyas (also known as The Flaying of Marsyas) is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance artist Titian, painted around 1570-1576. It is currently housed in National Museum in Kroměříž, in the Czech Republic. It's Titian's last finished work.. 
Madonna Colonna. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Madonna Colonna is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael. It was painted in 1508, near the end of Raphael's Florentine period.This painting should not be confused with the Colonna Altarpiece by the same artist which is at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in NYC.. The Madonna Colonna is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael. It was painted in 1508, near the end of Raphael's Florentine period. This painting should not be confused with the Colonna Altarpiece by the same artist which is at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in NYC.. 
A Wooded Marsh. Author Name: Jacob van Ruisdael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_Golden_Age_painting. . A Wooded Marsh (c. 1660s) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch landscape painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Hermitage Museum.This scene is very similar to other paintings Ruisdael made in this period and these often served as inspiration for later painters of landscape.. A Wooded Marsh (c. 1660s) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch landscape painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Hermitage Museum. This painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1911, who wrote; "508. A POOL IN A WOOD. Sm. 306. A stagnant pool, overgrown with flowering water-lilies and other plants, extends from the centre of the distance to the foreground. On either side are beeches and oaks, reflected in the water. In the right foreground is a great withered oak ; in front of it lies a felled beech, with the left end in the water. On the left three ducks fly into the bushes at the approach of a man who is seen in the distance. A genuine and very fine picture, but almost all the green has faded from the foliage. Signed in full on the left at foot ; canvas, 29 inches by 39 1/2 inches. Acquired by the Empress Catherine II. of Russia. In the Hermitage Palace, St. Petersburg, 1901 catalogue, No. 1136 ; it was there in 1835 (Sm., who valued it at £450).". This scene is very similar to other paintings Ruisdael made in this period and these often served as inspiration for later painters of landscape.. 
Bearing Witness. Author Name: Martin Puryear. . . Bearing Witness is an outdoor 1997 sculpture by Martin Puryear, installed outside the Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center in Washington, D.C., in the United States.. Bearing Witness is an outdoor 1997 sculpture by Martin Puryear, installed outside the Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center in Washington, D.C., in the United States.. 
Laureate. Author Name: Seymour Lipton. . . Laureate is a public art work by American artist Seymour Lipton, located on the Riverwalk in downtown Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The abstract artwork was commissioned by the Allen-Bradley Company in memory of Harry Lynde Bradley and as an enhancement for the newly constructed Performing Arts Center. It is located on the east bank of the Milwaukee River at 929 North Water Street.. Laureate is a public art work by American artist Seymour Lipton, located on the Riverwalk in downtown Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The abstract artwork was commissioned by the Allen-Bradley Company in memory of Harry Lynde Bradley and as an enhancement for the newly constructed Performing Arts Center. It is located on the east bank of the Milwaukee River at 929 North Water Street.. 
Knife Tree. Author Name: Heinz Mack. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Zero_(art). . Knife Tree is a public art work by German artist Heinz Mack located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture is an abstract spire with upper elements resembling a feather. It is made of steel plated with chrome; it is installed on the lawn.. Knife Tree is a public art work by German artist Heinz Mack located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture is an abstract spire with upper elements resembling a feather. It is made of steel plated with chrome; it is installed on the lawn.. 
George Washington. Author Name: Jean-Antoine Houdon. . . George Washington is a statue by French sculptor Jean-Antoine Houdon from the late 18th century. Based on a life mask and other measurements of George Washington taken by Houdon, it is considered one of the most accurate depictions of the subject. The original sculpture is located in the rotunda of the Virginia State Capitol in Richmond, Virginia, and has been copied extensively.The date given for the sculpture varies. It was commissioned by the Virginia General Assembly in 1784, begun in 1785, signed "1788", completed in 1791 or 1792, and delivered in 1796.. George Washington is a statue by French sculptor Jean-Antoine Houdon from the late 18th century. Based on a life mask and other measurements of George Washington taken by Houdon, it is considered one of the most accurate depictions of the subject. The original sculpture is located in the rotunda of the Virginia State Capitol in Richmond, Virginia, and has been copied extensively. The date given for the sculpture varies. It was commissioned by the Virginia General Assembly in 1784, begun in 1785, signed "1788", completed in 1791 or 1792, and delivered in 1796.. 
Spider. Author Name: Louise Bourgeois. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Feminist_art. . Spider is a sculpture by Louise Bourgeois.Executed in 1996 as an edition of six and cast in 1997; bronze with a silver nitrate patina, with the first of the edition being steel.An example was acquired by the Denver Art Museum for its new addition in 2006.Other locations in permanent collections include the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden, Washington DC, and the Kemper Museum of Contemporary Art, Kansas City, Missouri.. Spider is a sculpture by Louise Bourgeois.Executed in 1996 as an edition of six and cast in 1997; bronze with a silver nitrate patina, with the first of the edition being steel. An example was acquired by the Denver Art Museum for its new addition in 2006. Other locations in permanent collections include the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden, Washington DC, and the Kemper Museum of Contemporary Art, Kansas City, Missouri.. 
Memorial to Maria Raggi. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Memorial to Maria Raggi is a sculptural monument designed and executed by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini, in 1647. The monument is attached to a pillar in a nave of the church of Santa Maria sopra Minerva in Rome.. Memorial to Maria Raggi is a sculptural monument designed and executed by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini, in 1647. The monument is attached to a pillar in a nave of the church of Santa Maria sopra Minerva in Rome.. 
Reunion. Author Name: Don Gummer. . . Reunion, a public sculpture by Don Gummer, is located on the Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis campus, located near downtown Indianapolis, Indiana. The sculpture consists of two interlocking metal forms that have separate bases that eventually unite with one another. Reunion is located on the east side of the Herron School of Art and Design and is approximately 253 cm in height and approximately 167 cm wide. Reunion was created in 1992 as a model for a larger Reunion sculpture located in Japan. Reunion is made from cast bronze.. Reunion, a public sculpture by Don Gummer, is located on the Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis campus, located near downtown Indianapolis, Indiana. The sculpture consists of two interlocking metal forms that have separate bases that eventually unite with one another. Reunion is located on the east side of the Herron School of Art and Design and is approximately 253 cm in height and approximately 167 cm wide. Reunion was created in 1992 as a model for a larger Reunion sculpture located in Japan. Reunion is made from cast bronze.. 
A Dream of the Past: Sir Isumbras at the Ford. Author Name: Sir John Everett Millais, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pre-Raphaelite_Brotherhood. . A Dream of the Past: Sir Isumbras at the Ford (1857) is a painting by John Everett Millais depicting a medieval knight helping two young peasant children over a swollen river. The children are carrying heavy burdens of wood for winter fuel. Though the title refers to the medieval poem Sir Isumbras, the painting does not illustrate a scene from the original text. However Millais's friend, the writer Tom Taylor, wrote verse in a pastiche of the original poem, describing the event depicted. This was included in the original exhibition catalogue.. A Dream of the Past: Sir Isumbras at the Ford (1857) is a painting by John Everett Millais depicting a medieval knight helping two young peasant children over a swollen river. The children are carrying heavy burdens of wood for winter fuel. Though the title refers to the medieval poem Sir Isumbras, the painting does not illustrate a scene from the original text. However Millais's friend, the writer Tom Taylor, wrote verse in a pastiche of the original poem, describing the event depicted. This was included in the original exhibition catalogue. The background of the painting is based closely on a ruined medieval bridge which stood in Bridge of Earn, Perthshire (since demolished). Some of the village houses (in Back Street) can also be seen, though the tower house or castle to the left is imaginary. When first exhibited the painting was extremely controversial, and was attacked by many critics. Most notably, Millais's former supporter John Ruskin declared it to be a "catastrophe". The painting was also satirised in a print by Frederic Sandys, entitled "A Nightmare", in which Millais himself was represented as the knight. His fellow Pre-Raphaelites Dante Gabriel Rossetti and William Holman Hunt were caricatured as the children, and the horse—transformed into a donkey—was branded with the initials of Ruskin.. 
Sunflowers. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Sunflowers (original title, in French: Tournesols) are the subject of two series of still life paintings by the Dutch painter Vincent van Gogh. The earlier series executed in Paris in 1887, depicts the flowers lying on the ground, while the second set executed a year later in Arles shows bouquets of sunflowers in a vase. In the artist's mind both sets were linked by the name of his friend Paul Gauguin, who acquired two of the Paris versions. About eight months later Van Gogh hoped to welcome and to impress Gauguin again with Sunflowers, now part of the painted Décoration for the Yellow House that he prepared for the guestroom of his home in Arles, where Gauguin was supposed to stay. After Gauguin's departure, Van Gogh imagined the two major versions as wings of the Berceuse Triptych, and f. Sunflowers (original title, in French: Tournesols) are the subject of two series of still life paintings by the Dutch painter Vincent van Gogh. The earlier series executed in Paris in 1887, depicts the flowers lying on the ground, while the second set executed a year later in Arles shows bouquets of sunflowers in a vase. In the artist's mind both sets were linked by the name of his friend Paul Gauguin, who acquired two of the Paris versions. About eight months later Van Gogh hoped to welcome and to impress Gauguin again with Sunflowers, now part of the painted Décoration for the Yellow House that he prepared for the guestroom of his home in Arles, where Gauguin was supposed to stay. After Gauguin's departure, Van Gogh imagined the two major versions as wings of the Berceuse Triptych, and finally he included them in his Les XX in Bruxelles exhibit. 
Canadian Historical Dinner Service. Author Name: Adams, Lily Osman. . . The Canadian Historical Dinner Service, originally called the Cabot Commemorative State Dinner Service, is 204-piece eight-course dinner service with 24 place settings of hand-painted porcelain. It was created in 1896–97 to commemorate the 400th anniversary of the discovery of Canada by John Cabot. The illustrations all have Canadian subjects, and no two pieces are the same.. The Canadian Historical Dinner Service, originally called the Cabot Commemorative State Dinner Service, is 204-piece eight-course dinner service with 24 place settings of hand-painted porcelain. It was created in 1896–97 to commemorate the 400th anniversary of the discovery of Canada by John Cabot. The illustrations all have Canadian subjects, and no two pieces are the same.. 
Slave Market with the Disappearing Bust of Voltaire. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Slave Market with the Disappearing Bust of Voltaire (1940) is a painting by Spanish Surrealist Salvador Dalí. The painting depicts a slave market, while a woman at a booth watches some people. A variety of people seem to make up the face of Voltaire, while the face seems to be positioned on an object to form a bust.The painting was completed in 1940. Dalí describes his work on the painting "to make the abnormal look normal and the normal look abnormal.". Slave Market with the Disappearing Bust of Voltaire (1940) is a painting by Spanish Surrealist Salvador Dalí. The painting depicts a slave market, while a woman at a booth watches some people. A variety of people seem to make up the face of Voltaire, while the face seems to be positioned on an object to form a bust. The painting was completed in 1940. Dalí describes his work on the painting "to make the abnormal look normal and the normal look abnormal.". 
A Young Archer. Author Name: Govert Flinck. . Author Movement: Baroque. . A Young Archer is an oil painting, painted about 1640 by the Dutch Golden Age artist Govaert Flinck. The painting depicts a young black boy dressed as an archer. The painting is in the collection of the Wallace Collection, in London, England.. A Young Archer is an oil painting, painted about 1640 by the Dutch Golden Age artist Govaert Flinck. The painting depicts a young black boy dressed as an archer. The painting is in the collection of the Wallace Collection, in London, England.. 
Peasant with a Wheelbarrow. Author Name: Jean-François Millet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Peasant with a Wheelbarrow is an oil painting by French artist Jean-François Millet, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. Begun in 1848 but not finished until Millet found a buyer in 1852, it depicts a peasant man pushing a wheelbarrow.. Peasant with a Wheelbarrow is an oil painting by French artist Jean-François Millet, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. Begun in 1848 but not finished until Millet found a buyer in 1852, it depicts a peasant man pushing a wheelbarrow.. 
The Boy in the Red Vest. Author Name: Paul Cézanne. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . The Boy in the Red Vest (Le Garçon au gilet rouge), also known as The Boy in the Red Waistcoat, is a painting (Venturi 681) by Paul Cézanne, painted in 1889 or 1890. It is a fine example of Cézanne's skilled, nuanced, and innovative mature work after 1880.The Foundation E.G. Bührle, which currently owns the work, notes the painting's picturesqueness, adding that "There is a perfect balance here of high compositional intelligence and spontaneous painterly intuition." In 1895, art critic Gustave Geffroy said it could stand comparison with the finest figure paintings of the Old Masters.. The Boy in the Red Vest (Le Garçon au gilet rouge), also known as The Boy in the Red Waistcoat, is a painting (Venturi 681) by Paul Cézanne, painted in 1889 or 1890. It is a fine example of Cézanne's skilled, nuanced, and innovative mature work after 1880. Cézanne painted four oil portraits of this Italian boy in the red vest, all in different poses, which allowed him to study the relationship between the figure and space. The most famous of the four, and the one commonly referred to by this title, is the one which depicts the boy in a melancholic seated pose with his elbow on a table and his head cradled in his hand. It is currently held in Zürich, Switzerland. The other three portraits, of different poses, are in museums in the US. The Foundation E.G. Bührle, which currently owns the work, notes the painting's picturesqueness, adding that "There is a perfect balance here of high compositional intelligence and spontaneous painterly intuition." In 1895, art critic Gustave Geffroy said it could stand comparison with the finest figure paintings of the Old Masters. The colors of the painting are rich, dense, and festive. The composition is organized with three main diagonals: the angle of the boy's tilted back and head, the angle of the deep-green curtain behind the boy, and the long angle of the seat and table rising from the lower left. These three angles are countered by the angles of the boy's thighs and arms, creating a tightly articulated structure of intersecting diagonals. This painting was acquired from Cézanne by art dealer Ambroise Vollard, probably in 1895, and successively acquired by art collectors Marcell Nemes in 1909 and Gottlieb Reber in 1913. Art collector and patron Emil Georg Bührle purchased it from Beber in 1948. Following Bührle's death in 1956, his heirs donated the painting to the Foundation E.G. Bührle in 1960. In February 2008, the painting was stolen from the Foundation E.G. Bührle in Zurich. It was the museum's most valuable painting and was valued at $91 million. It was recovered in Serbia in April 2012.. 
Oath of the Horatii. Author Name: Jacques-Louis David. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . Oath of the Horatii (French: Le Serment des Horaces), is a large painting by the French artist Jacques-Louis David painted in 1784 and now on display in the Louvre in Paris. The painting immediately became a huge success with critics and the public, and remains one of the best known paintings in the Neoclassical style.The principal sources for the story behind David's Oath are the first book of Livy (sections 24-6) which was elaborated by Dionysius in book 3 of his Roman Antiquities. However, the moment depicted in David's painting is his own invention.. Oath of the Horatii (French: Le Serment des Horaces), is a large painting by the French artist Jacques-Louis David painted in 1784 and now on display in the Louvre in Paris. The painting immediately became a huge success with critics and the public, and remains one of the best known paintings in the Neoclassical style. It depicts a scene from a Roman legend about a dispute between two warring cities, Rome and Alba Longa, and stresses the importance of patriotism and masculine self-sacrifice for one's country. Instead of the two cities sending their armies to war, they agree to choose three men from each city; the victor in that fight will be the victorious city. From Rome, three brothers from a Roman family, the Horatii, agree to end the war by fighting three brothers from a family of Alba Longa, the Curiatii. The three brothers, all of whom appear willing to sacrifice their lives for the good of Rome, are shown saluting their father who holds their swords out for them. Of the three Horatii brothers, only one shall survive the confrontation. However, it is the surviving brother who is able to kill the other three fighters from Alba Longa: he chases the three fighters, causing them to separate from each other, and then, in turn, kills each Curiatii brother. Aside from the three brothers depicted, David also represents, in the bottom right corner, a woman crying whilst sitting down. She is Camilla, a sister of the Horatii brothers, who is also betrothed to one of the Curiatii fighters, and thus she weeps in the realisation that, in any case, she will lose someone she loves. The principal sources for the story behind David's Oath are the first book of Livy (sections 24-6) which was elaborated by Dionysius in book 3 of his Roman Antiquities. However, the moment depicted in David's painting is his own invention. It grew to be considered a paragon of neoclassical art. The painting increased David's fame, allowing him to take on his own students.. 
Columbus Breaking the Egg. Author Name: William  Hogarth. . . Columbus Breaking the Egg is a 1752 engraving by English artist William Hogarth. Issued as the subscription ticket for his treatise on art, The Analysis of Beauty, it depicts an apocryphal tale (the "Egg of Columbus") concerning Christopher Columbus's response to detractors of his discovery of the New World. Hogarth uses the story as a parallel to what he considered his own discoveries in art.. Columbus Breaking the Egg is a 1752 engraving by English artist William Hogarth. Issued as the subscription ticket for his treatise on art, The Analysis of Beauty, it depicts an apocryphal tale (the "Egg of Columbus") concerning Christopher Columbus's response to detractors of his discovery of the New World. Hogarth uses the story as a parallel to what he considered his own discoveries in art.. 
The Goose Girl. Author Name: William-Adolphe Bouguereau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Goose Girl is an 1891 painting by Adolphe William Bouguereau, a French academic painter. The Goose Girl is one of many examples that Bouguereau specialized in paintings of beautiful women, and innocent, barefoot, young peasant girls.It is part of the permanent collection of the Herbert F. Johnson Museum of Art at Cornell University.. The Goose Girl is an 1891 painting by Adolphe William Bouguereau, a French academic painter. The Goose Girl is one of many examples that Bouguereau specialized in paintings of beautiful women, and innocent, barefoot, young peasant girls. It is part of the permanent collection of the Herbert F. Johnson Museum of Art at Cornell University.. 
The Coronation of the Virgin. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Coronation of the Virgin is a painting by Diego Velázquez of the Holy Trinity crowning the Blessed Virgin Mary, a theme in Marian art. It is now at the Museo del Prado.It was probably commissioned for the oratory of the court of Elisabeth of France, queen consort to Philip IV of Spain, in the Real Alcázar of Madrid. There it joined others on Marian religious festivities by the Naples painter Andrea Vaccaro which had been brought to Madrid by cardinal Gaspar de Borja y Velasco. The model for Mary in the work may be the same model as the artist used for the Rokeby Venus.. The Coronation of the Virgin is a painting by Diego Velázquez of the Holy Trinity crowning the Blessed Virgin Mary, a theme in Marian art. It is now at the Museo del Prado. It was probably commissioned for the oratory of the court of Elisabeth of France, queen consort to Philip IV of Spain, in the Real Alcázar of Madrid. There it joined others on Marian religious festivities by the Naples painter Andrea Vaccaro which had been brought to Madrid by cardinal Gaspar de Borja y Velasco. The model for Mary in the work may be the same model as the artist used for the Rokeby Venus.. 
Gassed. Author Name: John Singer Sargent. . . Gassed is a very large oil painting completed in March 1919 by John Singer Sargent. It depicts the aftermath of a mustard gas attack during the First World War, with a line of wounded soldiers walking towards a dressing station. Sargent was commissioned by the British War Memorials Committee to document the war and visited the Western Front in July 1918 spending time with the Guards Division near Arras, and then with the American Expeditionary Forces near Ypres. The painting was finished in March 1919 and voted picture of the year by the Royal Academy of Arts in 1919. It is now held by the Imperial War Museum.. Gassed is a very large oil painting completed in March 1919 by John Singer Sargent. It depicts the aftermath of a mustard gas attack during the First World War, with a line of wounded soldiers walking towards a dressing station. Sargent was commissioned by the British War Memorials Committee to document the war and visited the Western Front in July 1918 spending time with the Guards Division near Arras, and then with the American Expeditionary Forces near Ypres. The painting was finished in March 1919 and voted picture of the year by the Royal Academy of Arts in 1919. It is now held by the Imperial War Museum.. 
A Family. Author Name: Louis le Brocquy. . . "A Family" is an oil on canvas by Louis le Brocquy. Depicting a stark human condition in the aftermarth of World War II, Síghle Bhreathnach-Lynch, Curator of Irish Art at the National Gallery of Ireland notes: 'The mother, lying on a table, leaning on one arm, stares out with quiet dignity while a menacing looking cat peers out from beneath the draw sheet. In the background the father sits, head bowed, in a pose suggesting total dejection. He appears to be oblivious to the small child holding a bunch of flowers; a symbol of hope. The three somberly painted figures inhabit a grey concrete bunker, lit by a bare bulb. The theme of this disturbingly bleak work is the nature of individual isolation and the breakdown of societal norms.'. "A Family" is an oil on canvas by Louis le Brocquy. Depicting a stark human condition in the aftermarth of World War II, Síghle Bhreathnach-Lynch, Curator of Irish Art at the National Gallery of Ireland notes: 'The mother, lying on a table, leaning on one arm, stares out with quiet dignity while a menacing looking cat peers out from beneath the draw sheet. In the background the father sits, head bowed, in a pose suggesting total dejection. He appears to be oblivious to the small child holding a bunch of flowers; a symbol of hope. The three somberly painted figures inhabit a grey concrete bunker, lit by a bare bulb. The theme of this disturbingly bleak work is the nature of individual isolation and the breakdown of societal norms.' "A Family" sparked controversy when a group of art patrons offered to present the painting to the Dublin Municipal Gallery in 1952. The gift was rejected by the Art Advisory Committee on the grounds of incompetence. Ineffectual protests were led by fellow artists within a small dynamic group supporting contemporary art. The event mobilised modern art haters and open hostility was aired in letters sent to the press. Viewed as an 'unwholesome and satanic distortion of natural beauty', the aversion was summed up in an opinion published by the Dublin Evening Mail: 'There is a place for monstrosities in the College of Surgeons - there are plenty there - and it would give me much pleasure to find a place for things like "The Family" [sic] ... It is not given to man to see into the future, but I am quite certain that in another 100 years the works of Turner, Constable, and a Galaxy of true artists, whose work is still with us, will be cherished and admired, while things like "The Family" [sic] will have returned to the oblivion from which they never should have emerged. As notes Dr. Síghle Bhreathnach-Lynch, ‘The artist's image of stark reality in the shape of the terrifying uncertainty of the post-War era and the resultant isolation of the family unit shocked rather than comforted. One letter writer to The Irish Times stated unequivocally that the picture in question is as remote from beauty as the utmost stretch of mortal imagination can conceive. The figures are bestial, horribly misshapen with heads and faces of idiots. If ordinary people met such figures in the streets they would flee from them in terror. The critic Tony Gray saw no tenderness in the forms portrayed. Rather he felt that they were "depressing and frightening" and the sombre palette merely "enhanced the despair of his theme." The Evening Herald headlined its review "What is it all about" and castigated the le Brocquy exhibition for representing what it called "the left in art" (an oblique reference to modernism). The artist was accused of having gone the way of everything sensational, shallow and ephemeral. The 'Man About Town' column in the Evening Mail believed that the whole composition was "bewildering and repulsive" (the length of the woman's neck seemed to be especially abhorrent!). A rhetorical question implying a negative reply was posed, "What is the aesthetic value of these distortions"? An editorial in the same newspaper broadened the enquiry to a consideration of the genuine value of modern art in general. John Ryan, however, will write in the Dublin Evening Mail: 'Louis le Brocquy discovered his peculiarly individual mode of expression early in his career and courageously employed it even when doing so meant that he had to discard a style which promised a fashionable and lucrative future as a portrait painter in the traditional manner. That pedestrian opinion has not forgiven him for this revolt against its standards was amply proved by the deplorable attack on the painter in the Evening Herald recently. Le Brocquy's stand and his subsequent development as an artist, however, won him the admiration and respect of intelligent opinion wherever his work has been shown. In great Britain he is accepted as one of the handful of really brilliant painters of this generation, while America in so far as she has had the opportunity to judge has reacted similarly. Despite the strictures of the Evening Herald it is satisfactory to note that the exhibition itself has been an outstanding success in every respect.' First exhibited in London at Gimpel Fils in June 1951, the painting attracted considerable praise. John Berger observed in Art News and Review: 'Le Brocquy is completely free of contemporary tendency to cosmic megalomania. It has become pretentious to talk of an artist's humility, yet that is what distinguishes his work; his studies testify to his patience, and his final, large picture to his refusal to evade simple but difficult problems by relying on the grandiose cliché ... The right-hand half of the very large Family group is, by itself, the finest bit of contemporary painting I have seen for a long time, and I am now convinced that le Brocquy is one of the really promising (in this case that infuriating word is not an excuse but an achievement) British [sic] painters of his generation.' The picture later received critical acclaim. In June 1956 Louis le Brocquy represented Ireland at the Venice Biennale and "A Family" was awarded the Nestlé-endowed Premio Aquisitato. The painting was subsequently given historical recognition in the exhibition Cinquante Ans d'Art Moderne (World Fair, Brussels, 1958), held to be one of the most ambitious attempts to trace and categorise the development of painting and sculpture from Cézanne and Rodin to that date. A Family will return to Ireland fifty years later to be displayed in the National Gallery of Ireland. Síghle Bhreathnach-Lynch Curator of Irish Art at the National Gallery of Ireland will observe on this occasion: 'A Family is rightly recognized as a seminal painting in the history of 20th-century Irish art. It is not only an important transitional work in the artist's oeuvre but one anticipating modernism as an everyday style in Irish art. All of this is implicitly acknowledged in its being on display to the public. To date, the exception to the policy of only displaying work by dead artists in the Gallery is the continuous acquisition of portraits by contemporary artists for the National Portrait Collection. Le Brocquy is the only living artist to have a work on show as part of the permanent collection. As Medb Ruane has pointed out, the prophet has finally been honoured in his own land.’. 
Don Luis de Góngora. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Portrait of Don Luis de Góngora is a 1622 painting in oils of the poet Luis de Góngora by Diego Velázquez. It is influenced by Caravaggio, especially in its chiaroscuro, and also applies lessons Velazquez had learned in Italy, such as the rich palette as used by Titian. It is now in the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. The portrait was commissioned with the assistance of Velázquez's teacher, Francisco Pacheco.There are two other versions of this portrait of uncertain attribution. One is held by the Museo Lázaro Galdiano, Madrid, and the other by the Prado.. Portrait of Don Luis de Góngora is a 1622 painting in oils of the poet Luis de Góngora by Diego Velázquez. It is influenced by Caravaggio, especially in its chiaroscuro, and also applies lessons Velazquez had learned in Italy, such as the rich palette as used by Titian. It is now in the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. The portrait was commissioned with the assistance of Velázquez's teacher, Francisco Pacheco. There are two other versions of this portrait of uncertain attribution. One is held by the Museo Lázaro Galdiano, Madrid, and the other by the Prado.. 
Double Check. Author Name: John Seward Johnson II. . . Double Check is a 1982 sculpture by John Seward Johnson II, located in Zuccotti Park in Manhattan, New York City.. Double Check is a 1982 sculpture by John Seward Johnson II, located in Zuccotti Park in Manhattan, New York City.. 
Portrait of an Unknown Woman. Author Name: Ivan Kramskoi. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Peredvizhniki. . Portrait of an Unknown Woman, also known as The Unknown Woman, An Unknown Lady or Stranger (Russian: Неизвестная,  Neizvestnaya) is a painting by the Russian artist Ivan Kramskoi, executed in 1883. The identity of the model is unknown and depicts a woman of "quiet strength and forthright gaze". It is one of Russia's best-known art works, although a number of critics were indignant when the painting was first exhibited and condemned what they saw as a depiction of a haughty and immoral woman. Its popularity has grown with changes in public taste.. Portrait of an Unknown Woman, also known as The Unknown Woman, An Unknown Lady or Stranger (Russian: Неизвестная, Neizvestnaya) is a painting by the Russian artist Ivan Kramskoi, executed in 1883. The identity of the model is unknown and depicts a woman of "quiet strength and forthright gaze". It is one of Russia's best-known art works, although a number of critics were indignant when the painting was first exhibited and condemned what they saw as a depiction of a haughty and immoral woman. Its popularity has grown with changes in public taste. The painting hangs in the Tretyakov Gallery, Moscow, while an earlier version, also dated 1883, is housed at the Arts Center in Kiel.. 
The Abduction of Europa. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Rembrandt Harmenszoon van Rijn’s The Abduction of Europa (1632) is one of his rare mythological subject paintings. The piece is oil on canvas and now located in the J. Paul Getty Museum. The inspiration for the painting is Ovid’s Metamorphoses, part of which tells the tale of Zeus’s seduction and capture of Europa. The painting shows a coastal scene with Europa being carried away in rough waters by a bull while her friends remain on shore with expressions of horror. Rembrandt combined his knowledge of classical literature with the interests of the patron in order to create this allegorical work. The use of an ancient myth to impart a contemporary thought and his portrayal of the scene using the High Baroque style are two strong aspects of the work.. Rembrandt Harmenszoon van Rijn’s The Abduction of Europa (1632) is one of his rare mythological subject paintings. The piece is oil on canvas and now located in the J. Paul Getty Museum. The inspiration for the painting is Ovid’s Metamorphoses, part of which tells the tale of Zeus’s seduction and capture of Europa. The painting shows a coastal scene with Europa being carried away in rough waters by a bull while her friends remain on shore with expressions of horror. Rembrandt combined his knowledge of classical literature with the interests of the patron in order to create this allegorical work. The use of an ancient myth to impart a contemporary thought and his portrayal of the scene using the High Baroque style are two strong aspects of the work.. 
Mermaid. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Mermaid (sometimes The Mermaid) is a 1979 outdoor sculpture by Roy Lichtenstein, composed of concrete, steel, polyurethane, enamel, palm tree, and water. It is located in Miami Beach at the Fillmore Miami Beach at Jackie Gleason Theater. Measuring 640 cm × 730 cm × 330 cm (252 in × 288 in × 132 in), it is his first public art commission according to some sources, although others point to a temporary pavilion that predates this work. It is also the second piece of public art in the city of Miami Beach. Since the sculpture was installed, it has been restored several times, and the theater that it accompanies has been restored and renamed twice.. Mermaid (sometimes The Mermaid) is a 1979 outdoor sculpture by Roy Lichtenstein, composed of concrete, steel, polyurethane, enamel, palm tree, and water. It is located in Miami Beach at the Fillmore Miami Beach at Jackie Gleason Theater. Measuring 640 cm × 730 cm × 330 cm (252 in × 288 in × 132 in), it is his first public art commission according to some sources, although others point to a temporary pavilion that predates this work. It is also the second piece of public art in the city of Miami Beach. Since the sculpture was installed, it has been restored several times, and the theater that it accompanies has been restored and renamed twice.. 
Memorial to Japanese-American Patriotism in World War II. Author Name: Akamu, Nina. . . The Memorial to Japanese-American Patriotism in World War II is a memorial and monument designed by Davis Buckley and Japanese American artist Nina Akamu. The work is located at Louisiana Avenue and D Street, Northwest, Washington, D.C. The memorial commemorates Japanese American war involvement, veterans and patriotism during World War II, as well as those held in Japanese American internment camps.. The Memorial to Japanese-American Patriotism in World War II is a memorial and monument designed by Davis Buckley and Japanese American artist Nina Akamu. The work is located at Louisiana Avenue and D Street, Northwest, Washington, D.C. The memorial commemorates Japanese American war involvement, veterans and patriotism during World War II, as well as those held in Japanese American internment camps.. 
The Banks of the Oise near Pontoise. Author Name: Camille Pissarro. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Banks of the Oise near Pontoise is an 1873 oil painting by French artist Camille Pissarro, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It depicts the river Oise near the market town of Pontoise.. The Banks of the Oise near Pontoise is an 1873 oil painting by French artist Camille Pissarro, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It depicts the river Oise near the market town of Pontoise.. 
St. Jerome in His Study. Author Name: Albrecht Dürer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . St. Jerome in His Study is an oil on panel painting by German Renaissance artist Albrecht Dürer, completed March 1521. It is in the Museu Nacional de Arte Antiga of Lisbon, Portugal.. St. Jerome in His Study is an oil on panel painting by German Renaissance artist Albrecht Dürer, completed March 1521. It is in the Museu Nacional de Arte Antiga of Lisbon, Portugal.. 
Finding of the body of St Mark. Author Name: Tintoretto. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Finding of the body of St Mark or Rediscovery of the body of Saint Mark is a painting by Tintoretto. Dated to between 1562 and 1566, it is part of a cycle of paintings of the patron saint of Venice. It is now held in the Pinacoteca di Brera in Milan.. The Finding of the body of St Mark or Rediscovery of the body of Saint Mark is a painting by Tintoretto. Dated to between 1562 and 1566, it is part of a cycle of paintings of the patron saint of Venice. It is now held in the Pinacoteca di Brera in Milan. Like its companion piece, St Mark's Body Brought to Venice, the composition exemplifies Tintoretto's preference for dramatic effects of perspective and light. According to the art historian Thomas Nichols, "the linear logic of the emptied, boxlike perspective vistas is undermined by an irrational play of light and shade. Both paintings suggest the simultaneous existence of different levels of reality through the use of a range of pictorial techniques.". 
Capriccio with Palladian buildings. Author Name: Canaletto. . . The Capriccio with Palladian buildings is an oil painting on canvas (58x82 cm) by Canaletto, dating from about 1756 to 1759 and stored in the Galleria Nazionale Di Parma.. The Capriccio with Palladian buildings is an oil painting on canvas (58x82 cm) by Canaletto, dating from about 1756 to 1759 and stored in the Galleria Nazionale Di Parma.. 
Ramon Casas and Pere Romeu on a Tandem. Author Name: Ramon Casas. . Author Movement: Modernisme. . Ramon Casas and Pere Romeu on a Tandem is a painting by Ramon Casas in exhibition at the National Art Museum of Catalonia in Barcelona.. Ramon Casas and Pere Romeu on a Tandem is a painting by Ramon Casas in exhibition at the National Art Museum of Catalonia in Barcelona.. 
Lodgepole. Author Name: Kipp, Lyman. . . Lodgepole is a public art work by artist Lyman Kipp located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The abstract sculpture is a T-shaped form painted red; it is installed on the patio.. Lodgepole is a public art work by artist Lyman Kipp located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The abstract sculpture is a T-shaped form painted red; it is installed on the patio.. 
Martyrdom of Saint Lawrence. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Martyrdom of Saint Lawrence is an early sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. It depicts the saint at the moment of his martyrdom, being burnt alive on a gridiron. According to Bernini's biographer, Filippo Baldinucci, the sculpture was completed when Bernini was 15 years old, implying it was finished in the year 1614. Other historians have dated the sculpture between 1615 and 1618. A date of 1617 seems most likely. It is less than life-size in dimensions, measuring 108 by 66 cm.The sculpture is now held in the Uffizi in Florence as part of the Contini Bonacossi Collection.. Martyrdom of Saint Lawrence is an early sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. It depicts the saint at the moment of his martyrdom, being burnt alive on a gridiron. According to Bernini's biographer, Filippo Baldinucci, the sculpture was completed when Bernini was 15 years old, implying it was finished in the year 1614. Other historians have dated the sculpture between 1615 and 1618. A date of 1617 seems most likely. It is less than life-size in dimensions, measuring 108 by 66 cm. The sculpture is now held in the Uffizi in Florence as part of the Contini Bonacossi Collection.. 
The Swimming Hole. Author Name: Thomas Eakins. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Swimming Hole (also known as Swimming and The Old Swimming Hole) is an 1884–85 painting by the American artist Thomas Eakins (1844–1916), Goodrich catalog #190, in the collection of the Amon Carter Museum in Fort Worth, Texas. Executed in oil on canvas, it depicts six men swimming naked in a lake, and is considered a masterpiece of American painting. According to art historian Doreen Bolger it is "perhaps Eakins' most accomplished rendition of the nude figure", and has been called "the most finely designed of all his outdoor pictures". Since the Renaissance, the human body has been considered both the basis of artists' training and the most challenging subject to depict in art, and the nude was the centerpiece of Eakins' teaching program at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts. Fo. The Swimming Hole (also known as Swimming and The Old Swimming Hole) is an 1884–85 painting by the American artist Thomas Eakins (1844–1916), Goodrich catalog #190, in the collection of the Amon Carter Museum in Fort Worth, Texas. Executed in oil on canvas, it depicts six men swimming naked in a lake, and is considered a masterpiece of American painting. According to art historian Doreen Bolger it is "perhaps Eakins' most accomplished rendition of the nude figure", and has been called "the most finely designed of all his outdoor pictures". Since the Renaissance, the human body has been considered both the basis of artists' training and the most challenging subject to depict in art, and the nude was the centerpiece of Eakins' teaching program at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts. For Eakins, this picture was an opportunity to display his mastery of the human form. In this work, Eakins took advantage of an exception to the generally prudish Victorian attitude to nudity: swimming naked was widely accepted, and for males was seen as normal, even in public spaces. Eakins was the first American artist to portray one of the few occasions in 19th-century life when nudity was on display. The Swimming Hole develops themes raised in his earlier work, in particular his treatment of buttocks and his ambiguous treatment of the human form; in some cases it is uncertain as to whether the forms portrayed are male or female. Such themes had earlier been examined in his The Gross Clinic (1875) and William Rush (1877), and would continue to be explored in his paintings of boxers (Taking the Count, Salutat, and Between Rounds) and wrestlers (Wrestlers). Although the theme of male bathers was familiar in Western art, having been explored by artists from Michelangelo to Daumier, Eakins' treatment was novel in American art at the time. The Swimming Hole has been "widely cited as a prime example of homoeroticism in American art". In 2008, the art critic Tom Lubbock described Eakins' work as:. 
Hurricane. Author Name: John Marin. . . Hurricane is a 1944 oil painting by American artist John Marin, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. He used quick brushstrokes and thickly daubed paint to depict a turbulent ocean such as he experienced near his summer home in Maine.. Hurricane is a 1944 oil painting by American artist John Marin, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. He used quick brushstrokes and thickly daubed paint to depict a turbulent ocean such as he experienced near his summer home in Maine.. 
The Last Judgment. Author Name: Blessed John of Fiesole, O.P.. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Last Judgment (tempera on panel) is a painting by the Renaissance artist Fra Angelico. It was commissioned by the Camaldolese Order for the newly elected abbot, the humanist scholar Ambrogio Traversari. It is variously dated to c1425, 1425-1430 and 1431. It was originally sited in the church of Santa Maria degli Angeli and now is in the museum of San Marco, Florence. It is not to be confused with another Fra Angelico Last Judgement in the Gemäldegalerie, Berlin.. The Last Judgment (tempera on panel) is a painting by the Renaissance artist Fra Angelico. It was commissioned by the Camaldolese Order for the newly elected abbot, the humanist scholar Ambrogio Traversari. It is variously dated to c1425, 1425-1430 and 1431. It was originally sited in the church of Santa Maria degli Angeli and now is in the museum of San Marco, Florence. It is not to be confused with another Fra Angelico Last Judgement in the Gemäldegalerie, Berlin.. 
Large Interior with Three Reflections. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Large Interior with Three Reflections is a 1993 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein.. Large Interior with Three Reflections is a 1993 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein.. 
The Distrest Poet. Author Name: William  Hogarth. . . The Distrest Poet is an oil painting produced sometime around 1736 by the British artist William Hogarth. Reproduced as an etching and engraving, it was published in 1741 from a third state plate produced in 1740. The scene was probably inspired by Alexander Pope's satirical poem The Dunciad. It depicts a scene in a small, dingy attic room where a poet sits at his desk in the dormer and, scratching his head, stares at the papers on the desk before him, evidently looking for inspiration to complete the poem he is writing. Near him sits his wife darning clothes, surprised by the entrance of a milkmaid, who impatiently demands payment of debts.. The Distrest Poet is an oil painting produced sometime around 1736 by the British artist William Hogarth. Reproduced as an etching and engraving, it was published in 1741 from a third state plate produced in 1740. The scene was probably inspired by Alexander Pope's satirical poem The Dunciad. It depicts a scene in a small, dingy attic room where a poet sits at his desk in the dormer and, scratching his head, stares at the papers on the desk before him, evidently looking for inspiration to complete the poem he is writing. Near him sits his wife darning clothes, surprised by the entrance of a milkmaid, who impatiently demands payment of debts.. 
Adoration of the Magi. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Adoration of the Magi is a c.1616-17 painting by the Flemish Baroque artist Peter Paul Rubens, now in King's College Chapel, Cambridge. There is an oil preparatory sketch, long hidden in private collections.. The Adoration of the Magi is a c.1616-17 painting by the Flemish Baroque artist Peter Paul Rubens, now in King's College Chapel, Cambridge. There is an oil preparatory sketch, long hidden in private collections.. 
Interrupted Flight. Author Name: Zivkovic, Miodrag. . . Kragujevac October Memorial Park (Serbian: Spomen-park „Kragujevački oktobar“, Спомен-парк „Крагујевачки октобар“), also known as Šumarice Memorial Park (Memorijalni park Šumarice, Меморијални парк Шумарице), is the site near Kragujevac, Serbia of the execution of an estimated 3,000 men and boys of the town by the German occupation forces on October 21, 1941, during World War II. According to Cohen, "All males from the town between the ages of sixteen and sixty were assembled and the victims -- including high school students -- were selected from among them.". Kragujevac October Memorial Park (Serbian: Spomen-park „Kragujevački oktobar“, Спомен-парк „Крагујевачки октобар“), also known as Šumarice Memorial Park (Memorijalni park Šumarice, Меморијални парк Шумарице), is the site near Kragujevac, Serbia of the execution of an estimated 3,000 men and boys of the town by the German occupation forces on October 21, 1941, during World War II. According to Cohen, "All males from the town between the ages of sixteen and sixty were assembled and the victims -- including high school students -- were selected from among them." There are several monuments in the park: the monument to the murdered schoolchildren and their teachers (the "Interrupted Flight" monument), the "Monument of pain and defiance", the "One hundred for one" monument, the "Resistance and Freedom" monument, and the monument to shoe cleaners, are some of the best known. The Museum of Genocide is located at the site of the massacre.. 
The Wall of the Moon. Author Name: Joan Miró. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . The Walls of the Sun and the Moon are a pair of murals made of ceramics and designed by the Catalan artist Joan Miró for the UNESCO building in Paris. The works were carried out by the ceramicist Josep Llorens Artigas in 1955. Initially, the walls were installed on the Place de Fontenoy in Paris, but afterwards were enclosed in a building that was constructed in order to protect them from damage caused by acid rain.. The Walls of the Sun and the Moon are a pair of murals made of ceramics and designed by the Catalan artist Joan Miró for the UNESCO building in Paris. The works were carried out by the ceramicist Josep Llorens Artigas in 1955. Initially, the walls were installed on the Place de Fontenoy in Paris, but afterwards were enclosed in a building that was constructed in order to protect them from damage caused by acid rain.. 
Portrait of Dr. Gachet. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Portrait of Dr. Gachet is one of the most revered paintings by the Dutch artist Vincent van Gogh. It depicts Dr. Paul Gachet who took care of Van Gogh during the final months of his life. There are two authenticated versions of the portrait, both painted in June 1890 at Auvers-sur-Oise. Both show Gachet sitting at a table and leaning his head on his right arm but they are easily differentiated in color and style. In 1990, the first version fetched a record price of $82.5 million ($75 million, plus a 10 percent buyer's commission) when sold at auction in New York.. Portrait of Dr. Gachet is one of the most revered paintings by the Dutch artist Vincent van Gogh. It depicts Dr. Paul Gachet who took care of Van Gogh during the final months of his life. There are two authenticated versions of the portrait, both painted in June 1890 at Auvers-sur-Oise. Both show Gachet sitting at a table and leaning his head on his right arm but they are easily differentiated in color and style. In 1990, the first version fetched a record price of $82.5 million ($75 million, plus a 10 percent buyer's commission) when sold at auction in New York.. 
Orange, Red, Yellow. Author Name: Mark Rothko. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . Orange, Red, Yellow is a 1961 Color Field painting by Mark Rothko. It sold at Christie's for $86,882,500 on May 8, 2012. The seller was the estate of David Pincus and the sale price represents a record nominal price for Post-War / contemporary art at public auction and for Rothko works in general.. Orange, Red, Yellow is a 1961 Color Field painting by Mark Rothko. It sold at Christie's for $86,882,500 on May 8, 2012. The seller was the estate of David Pincus and the sale price represents a record nominal price for Post-War / contemporary art at public auction and for Rothko works in general.. 
Robert Emmet. Author Name: Connor, Jerome. . . Robert Emmet is a bronze statue of Robert Emmet by Jerome Connor. There are four examples: Massachusetts Avenue and 24th Street, N.W. Washington, D.C.; St Stephen's Green, Dublin; Golden Gate Park, San Francisco; Emmetsburg, Iowa.The San Francisco example was dedicated on July 20, 1919.The Washington example was cast in 1916, and was dedicated on June 28, 1917. It was rededicated on April 22, 1966. The statue was a gift to the Smithsonian Institution on loan to the National Park Service.from the dock September 19, 1803. Robert Emmet is a bronze statue of Robert Emmet by Jerome Connor. There are four examples: Massachusetts Avenue and 24th Street, N.W. Washington, D.C.; St Stephen's Green, Dublin; Golden Gate Park, San Francisco; Emmetsburg, Iowa. The San Francisco example was dedicated on July 20, 1919.The Washington example was cast in 1916, and was dedicated on June 28, 1917. It was rededicated on April 22, 1966. The statue was a gift to the Smithsonian Institution on loan to the National Park Service. The inscription reads:(On right side of bronze base of sculpture:)JEROME CONNOR1916(Front of stone base:)Robert EmmetIrish Patriot1778-1803"Lidia-saon-eine"(On plaque, back of base:)"I WISHED TO PROCURE FOR MYCOUNTRY THE GUARANTEE WHICHWASHINGTON PROCURED FOR AMERICAI HAVE PARTED FROM EVERYTHINGTHAT WAS DEAR TO ME IN THIS LIFEFOR MY COUNTRY'S CAUSEWHEN MY COUNTRY TAKES HER PLACEAMONG THE NATIONS OF THEEARTH, THEN, AND NOT TILL THENLET MY EPITAPH BE WRITTEN"Extracts from Emmet's speech from the dock September 19, 1803. 
Pity. Author Name: William Blake. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . Pity (c. 1795) is a colour print on paper, finished in ink and watercolour, by the English artist and poet William Blake, one of the group known as the "Large Colour Prints". Along with his other works of this period, it was influenced by the Bible, Milton, and Shakespeare. The work is unusual, as it is a literal illustration of a double simile from Macbeth, found in the lines:. Pity (c. 1795) is a colour print on paper, finished in ink and watercolour, by the English artist and poet William Blake, one of the group known as the "Large Colour Prints". Along with his other works of this period, it was influenced by the Bible, Milton, and Shakespeare. The work is unusual, as it is a literal illustration of a double simile from Macbeth, found in the lines: Like other members of the group it is a monotype produced by printing from a matrix consisting of paint on gessoed millboard, with each impression then finished by hand. By this unusual means Blake could obtain up to three impressions from a single painting. Three such impressions survive of Pity. A fourth, in the British Museum, was an early trial of the design from a different matrix, as it is smaller than the others.. 
Mountains and Clouds. Author Name: Alexander "Sandy" Calder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstraction_(art). . Mountains and Clouds is a sculpture by Alexander Calder located in the Hart Senate Office Building.. Mountains and Clouds is a sculpture by Alexander Calder located in the Hart Senate Office Building.. 
The Seducer. Author Name: René Magritte. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Surrealism. . The Seducer (Le Séducteur, also known as The Tempter) is a surrealist painting by René Magritte. It was created in 1950 and again in 1953 in Brussels, Belgium. The 1950 version is held by the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts and the 1953 version is in a private collection. Other versions were created in 1951.The painting portrays a fully rigged sailing ship on the sea against a blue sky: the silhouette of the ship is infilled with a continuation of the waves of the sea. The painting measures 38 cm × 46 cm (15 in × 18 in). It features dark blue and light blue colours.. The Seducer (Le Séducteur, also known as The Tempter) is a surrealist painting by René Magritte. It was created in 1950 and again in 1953 in Brussels, Belgium. The 1950 version is held by the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts and the 1953 version is in a private collection. Other versions were created in 1951. The painting portrays a fully rigged sailing ship on the sea against a blue sky: the silhouette of the ship is infilled with a continuation of the waves of the sea. The painting measures 38 cm × 46 cm (15 in × 18 in). It features dark blue and light blue colours.. 
The Farmers' Lunch. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Farmers' Lunch (Almuerzo de campesinos) is one of the earliest paintings by the Spanish artist Diego Velázquez. Painted in oil on canvas in 1618, it combines a still life of food and drink with a depiction of three comic farmers, whose physiognomy the artist studies closely. The composition shows a younger man gesturing with his right hand to reinforce the story coming from his half-open lips, and an older man listening attentively while holding his cup up to a woman so she can refill it with wine. The still life includes fish, bread, a carrot, a lemon, and a copper vessel.. The Farmers' Lunch (Almuerzo de campesinos) is one of the earliest paintings by the Spanish artist Diego Velázquez. Painted in oil on canvas in 1618, it combines a still life of food and drink with a depiction of three comic farmers, whose physiognomy the artist studies closely. The composition shows a younger man gesturing with his right hand to reinforce the story coming from his half-open lips, and an older man listening attentively while holding his cup up to a woman so she can refill it with wine. The still life includes fish, bread, a carrot, a lemon, and a copper vessel. The Farmers' Lunch is nearly identical to another painting by Velázquez, The Lunch (ca. 1617).. 
General George B. McClellan. Author Name: Ellicott, Henry Jackson. . . General George B. McClellan is an equestrian bronze sculpture, by Henry Jackson Ellicott.. General George B. McClellan is an equestrian bronze sculpture, by Henry Jackson Ellicott.. 
Dante's Dream at the Time of the. Author Name: Dante Gabriel Rossetti. . . Dante's Dream (full title Dante's Dream at the Time of the Death of Beatrice) is a painting from 1871 by the English Pre-Raphaelite painter Dante Gabriel Rossetti. It hangs in the Walker Art Gallery, Liverpool, Merseyside, England.In the painting, Rossetti creates a visionary world with complex symbols. The symbols include the green clothes of Beatrice's attendants, signifying hope; spring flowers in the foreground symbolising purity; and red doves for love.. Dante's Dream (full title Dante's Dream at the Time of the Death of Beatrice) is a painting from 1871 by the English Pre-Raphaelite painter Dante Gabriel Rossetti. It hangs in the Walker Art Gallery, Liverpool, Merseyside, England. Rossetti had a lifelong interest in the Italian poet Dante Alighieri. The painting was inspired by Dante's poem La Vita Nuova. In this poem Dante dreams that he is led to the death-bed of Beatrice Portinari, who was the object of his unfulfilled love. Dante, in black, stands looking towards the dying Beatrice who is lying on a bed. Two female figures in green hold a canopy over her. An angel in red holds Dante's hand and leans forward to kiss Beatrice. In the painting, Rossetti creates a visionary world with complex symbols. The symbols include the green clothes of Beatrice's attendants, signifying hope; spring flowers in the foreground symbolising purity; and red doves for love. It is Rossetti's largest painting. The model for Beatrice was Elizabeth Siddal, Rossetti's wife. Annie Miller, who is thought to have been one of Rossetti's mistresses,[citation needed] posed as a grieving hand maiden. The Walker Art Gallery bought the painting directly from the artist in 1881 for £1575 (£140,000 as of 2016). In 1897 it was sent to Berlin to be photographed, but was then noted to be "in a dirty condition". Again in 1904 the painting was noted to be in "a bad condition" and it was considered that its condition had been worsened by its journey to and from Berlin. The painting was sent in 1908 to the National Gallery in London to be relined, that is, for a new canvas to the glued to the original. It was then returned to Liverpool. During the Second World War, it was removed from its stretcher, rolled and stored in the basement of the gallery. In 1941 the painting was moved, together with other large paintings from the gallery, to Ellesmere College in Shropshire. It was noted at this time that it had sustained some damage. Conservation work was carried out on the painting in 1960 and in 1985. Dante's Dream is a painting in oil on canvas, measuring 216 centimetres (85 in) by 312.4 centimetres (123 in). It was examined in 2003 and found to be in good condition, with no evidence of any recurrence of the former problems.. 
Lady Standing at a Virginal. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . Lady Standing at a Virginal is a genre painting created by the Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer in about 1670–1672, now in the National Gallery, London.. Lady Standing at a Virginal is a genre painting created by the Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer in about 1670–1672, now in the National Gallery, London.. 
Trial by Jury. Author Name: Sir Edwin Henry Landseer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Animalier. . Trial by Jury, or Laying Down the Law as it is commonly known, is an oil-on-canvas painting from 1840 by the English painter Sir Edwin Landseer, which satirises the legal profession. It depicts dogs in the roles of members of the court with a French poodle centre stage as the judge. The painting was inspired by a chance comment by a judge, while at dinner with Landseer, that the French poodle belonging to amateur artist and renowned socialite, the Count d'Orsay, "would make a capital Lord Chancellor".. Trial by Jury, or Laying Down the Law as it is commonly known, is an oil-on-canvas painting from 1840 by the English painter Sir Edwin Landseer, which satirises the legal profession. It depicts dogs in the roles of members of the court with a French poodle centre stage as the judge. The painting was inspired by a chance comment by a judge, while at dinner with Landseer, that the French poodle belonging to amateur artist and renowned socialite, the Count d'Orsay, "would make a capital Lord Chancellor". Landseer was a member of the Royal Academy and had become famous for his paintings and drawings of animals. His later works include The Monarch of the Glen, an iconic and much-reproduced painting of a stag in the Highlands, and the sculptures of the lions at the foot of Nelson's Column in Trafalgar Square, London. He completed Trial by Jury in 1840 — it was exhibited at the Royal Academy in the same year and was acquired by William Cavendish, 6th Duke of Devonshire, who had Landseer add his Blenheim spaniel, Bony, into the scene behind the greyhound. Early copies of the painting can be seen with Bony absent. The original now hangs in the Sculpture Gallery at Chatsworth House. The poodle has been variously identified as representing Lord Brougham, who had been Lord Chancellor from 1830 to 1834, or Lord Lyndhurst, who had held the post three times (1827–1830, 1834–1835, and 1841–1846).. 
Sleep and his Half-brother Death. Author Name: John William Waterhouse. . . Sleep and his Half-brother Death is a painting by John William Waterhouse completed in 1874.Waterhouse's first Royal Academy exhibit (submitted from his father's house at 1 Scarsdale Villas), it was painted after both his younger brothers died of tuberculosis.. Sleep and his Half-brother Death is a painting by John William Waterhouse completed in 1874. Waterhouse's first Royal Academy exhibit (submitted from his father's house at 1 Scarsdale Villas), it was painted after both his younger brothers died of tuberculosis.. 
Four-Sided Pyramid. Author Name: Sol LeWitt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Conceptual_art. . Four-Sided Pyramid is a  conceptual modular "structure", by Sol LeWitt, in the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden.The artist created a plan and Four-Sided Pyramid was constructed by others, in 1999.. Four-Sided Pyramid is a conceptual modular "structure", by Sol LeWitt, in the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden. The artist created a plan and Four-Sided Pyramid was constructed by others, in 1999.. 
Young Woman in a Black Dress. Author Name: Titian. . . The Young Woman in a Black Dress is an oil painting by Titian, dating to around 1520 and now held at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna. It was later misattributed to Palma il Vecchio, then to Giovanni Cariani, until Roberto Longhi reattributed it as by Titian, which is now the critical consensus.. The Young Woman in a Black Dress is an oil painting by Titian, dating to around 1520 and now held at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna. It was later misattributed to Palma il Vecchio, then to Giovanni Cariani, until Roberto Longhi reattributed it as by Titian, which is now the critical consensus. It depicts a woman half-length, facing the viewer, with her torso slightly twisted to give a sense of movement. One hand holds her black dress over her white shift, with a generous cleavage. The woman's physical type recurs in several other works by the artist, such as Flora and Woman with a Mirror - she may have been Titian's mistress, or simply a recurring model.. 
Madonna and Child with St. Anne. Author Name: Masaccio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Madonna and Child with St. Anne, also known as Sant'Anna Metterza, is a painting of c. 1424 by the Italian Renaissance painter Masaccio, probably in collaboration with Masolino da Panicale. The painting is in the Galleria degli Uffizi in Florence, Italy, and measures 175 centimetres high and 103 centimetres wide.. The Madonna and Child with St. Anne, also known as Sant'Anna Metterza, is a painting of c. 1424 by the Italian Renaissance painter Masaccio, probably in collaboration with Masolino da Panicale. The painting is in the Galleria degli Uffizi in Florence, Italy, and measures 175 centimetres high and 103 centimetres wide. The Virgin and Child, with its powerful volume and solid possession of space by means of an assured perspectival structure, is one of the earliest works credited to Masaccio. But for one, the angels, very delicate in their tender forms and pale, gentle colouring, are from the more Gothic brush of Masolino; the angel in the upper right hand curve reveals the hand of Masaccio. The figure of St. Anne is much worn and hence to be judged with difficulty, but her hand, which seems to explore the depth of the picture-space, may well be an invention of Masaccio. Masaccio's work shows the influence of Donatello in its soft, rounded forms and realistic texture. The ‘Madonna and Child with Saint Anne’ was originally commissioned for the Sant’Ambrogio church in Florence. According to Vasari, “It was placed in the chapel door which leads to the nuns’ parlour”. The figure of Christ is that of a young child, a realistic presence, rather than a gothic cherub. This is also one of the first paintings to display the effect of true natural light on the figure; it is this invention which imparts the modelling of form so characteristic of Masaccio, and which would have a profound influence on the painting of the Italian Renaissance.. 
Metaphysical Interior with Biscuits. Author Name: Giorgio de Chirico. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Metaphysical_art. . Metaphysical Interior with Biscuits (1916) is a painting by the Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio de Chirico. It is one of the earliest editions in a series of works that extended late into de Chirico’s career.. Metaphysical Interior with Biscuits (1916) is a painting by the Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio de Chirico. It is one of the earliest editions in a series of works that extended late into de Chirico’s career. Like the others in this series, this painting depicts a room cluttered with objects in a surreal arrangement. In this case the main focus is a panel on which are mounted several biscuits (crackers) arranged to resemble an abstract face. Behind this panel is a picture in an irregularly shaped frame. The image in the frame is an architectural scene in the style of de Chirico’s earlier work.. 
To the Unknown British Soldier in France. Author Name: Sir William Orpen. . . To the Unknown British Soldier in France is an oil-on-canvas painting by Irish artist William Orpen, exhibited in one state in 1923 and then modified in 1927. It was one of three paintings commissioned from Orpen to commemorate the Peace Conference at Versailles in 1919. The work is held by the Imperial War Museum in London.. To the Unknown British Soldier in France is an oil-on-canvas painting by Irish artist William Orpen, exhibited in one state in 1923 and then modified in 1927. It was one of three paintings commissioned from Orpen to commemorate the Peace Conference at Versailles in 1919. The work is held by the Imperial War Museum in London.. 
Perseus and Andromeda. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Perseus and Andromeda is the title of several paintings by the Flemish artist Peter Paul Rubens featuring the ancient Greek myth of Perseus and Andromeda after the former's defeat of the Gorgon.In the 1622 version in the Hermitage Museum, the Gorgon's reflection appears on Perseus' shield. The painting also shows Tobiano Pegasus, the goddess of glory over Perseus' head and several putti. The bottom of the painting partially shows Cetus, killed by Perseus earlier.. Perseus and Andromeda is the title of several paintings by the Flemish artist Peter Paul Rubens featuring the ancient Greek myth of Perseus and Andromeda after the former's defeat of the Gorgon. In the 1622 version in the Hermitage Museum, the Gorgon's reflection appears on Perseus' shield. The painting also shows Tobiano Pegasus, the goddess of glory over Perseus' head and several putti. The bottom of the painting partially shows Cetus, killed by Perseus earlier. This painting probably remained in Rubens' house until his death; an engraving from 1684, depicting the facade of Rubens' house in Antwerp, shows the painting through the window of the second floor. In the summer of 1769 the painting was acquired by the Russian Hermitage Museum from the collections of Heinrich von Brühl. It is now housed in the Rubens Hall on the second floor of the Hermitage Museum.. 
Syrinx. Author Name: Wolter, Adolph. . . Syrinx is a public artwork by German-born American sculptor Adolph Wolter located at the Indiana World War Memorial Plaza in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States.. Syrinx is a public artwork by German-born American sculptor Adolph Wolter located at the Indiana World War Memorial Plaza in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States.. 
Lincoln at 23. Author Name: Crunelle, Leonard. . . The Lincoln Monument is a bronze statue of Abraham Lincoln that commemorates his 1832 service in the Black Hawk War. Located in President's Park in Dixon, Illinois, the bronze statue was sculpted by Leonard Crunelle and was dedicated on September 24, 1930. The memorial is maintained by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency as a state historic site.LINCOLN. The Lincoln Monument is a bronze statue of Abraham Lincoln that commemorates his 1832 service in the Black Hawk War. Located in President's Park in Dixon, Illinois, the bronze statue was sculpted by Leonard Crunelle and was dedicated on September 24, 1930. The memorial is maintained by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency as a state historic site. The inscription reads:(On back of base, north side under relief of John Dixon:) JOHN DIXONFOUNDER OF THE CITY OF DIXONAPRIL 11, 1830 - PROPRIETOROF THE FERRY AND TAVERN HEREDURING THE BLACK HAWK WAR (Under relief of Ft. Dixon:) FORT DIXON IN 1832 (Under relief of a tavern, wagon, and boat:) DIXON TAVERN AND FERRY 1830 (Front of base:) LINCOLN. 
Eternal Moods. Author Name: Lik, Peter. . . Eternal Moods is a photograph made by Australian-born landscape photographer, Peter Lik in 2012. In 2014, a print was sold to a private collector for $1.1 million.[better source needed]The photograph was produced as an Elite Edition 1 of 1. It is a black & white derivative of a pre-existing color image titled “Eternal Beauty” sold as a 1900 Limited Edition and 90 Artist Proofs. The image depicts an opening through a subterranean cavern at Antelope Canyon, Arizona.[citation needed]The 1 of 1 print was acquired by a private collector.[citation needed]. Eternal Moods is a photograph made by Australian-born landscape photographer, Peter Lik in 2012. In 2014, a print was sold to a private collector for $1.1 million.[better source needed] The photograph was produced as an Elite Edition 1 of 1. It is a black & white derivative of a pre-existing color image titled “Eternal Beauty” sold as a 1900 Limited Edition and 90 Artist Proofs. The image depicts an opening through a subterranean cavern at Antelope Canyon, Arizona.[citation needed] Lik produced the print on Digital Metallic Glossy Media and then placed it in an Elite Black Lacquer Frame. The image itself measures 48 ¼”w x 73 ¼”h (122.555 cm x 186.055 cm) while the frame measures 66 ¼”w x 91 3/16”h x 3”d (168.275 cm x 231.616 cm x 7.62 cm)[citation needed] The 1 of 1 print was acquired by a private collector.[citation needed]. 
Alexander Hamilton. Author Name: Conrads, Carl. . . Alexander Hamilton is an outdoor granite sculpture by Carl Conrads, located in Central Park, Manhattan. Hamilton's son, John C. Hamilton, commissioned Conrads to sculpt this statue, which was dedicated on November 22, 1880 and donated to the city. Conrads used the bust of Hamilton created by the sculptor Giuseppe Ceracchi as a model for Hamilton's head.American founding father Alexander Hamilton lived nearby in Manhattan, at Hamilton Grange, when he died in 1804.. Alexander Hamilton is an outdoor granite sculpture by Carl Conrads, located in Central Park, Manhattan. Hamilton's son, John C. Hamilton, commissioned Conrads to sculpt this statue, which was dedicated on November 22, 1880 and donated to the city. Conrads used the bust of Hamilton created by the sculptor Giuseppe Ceracchi as a model for Hamilton's head. American founding father Alexander Hamilton lived nearby in Manhattan, at Hamilton Grange, when he died in 1804.. 
Leonidas at Thermopylae. Author Name: Jacques-Louis David. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . Leonidas at Thermopylae is an 1814 painting by Jacques-Louis David now on show at the Louvre. It shows the Spartan king Leonidas prior to the Battle of Thermopylae. David's pupil Georges Rouget collaborated on it.. Leonidas at Thermopylae is an 1814 painting by Jacques-Louis David now on show at the Louvre. It shows the Spartan king Leonidas prior to the Battle of Thermopylae. David's pupil Georges Rouget collaborated on it.. 
Madonna and Child with an Angel. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Madonna and Child with an Angel is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli, c. 1465-1467. It is housed in Spedale degli Innocenti of Florence.The painting, one of Botticelli's earliest, reveals Botticelli's close artistic relationship with his teacher, Filippo Lippi, and is modelled on the latter's The Virgin and Child with Two Angels.. The Madonna and Child with an Angel is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli, c. 1465-1467. It is housed in Spedale degli Innocenti of Florence. The painting, one of Botticelli's earliest, reveals Botticelli's close artistic relationship with his teacher, Filippo Lippi, and is modelled on the latter's The Virgin and Child with Two Angels.. 
Moody's pub. Author Name: Sir Russell Drysdale. . . Moody's pub is a 1941 painting by Australian artist Russell Drysdale. The painting depicts a pub in the Victorian town of Seymour.The painting has been described as "one of Drysdale's most celebrated paintings and among the most frequently reproduced images of twentieth-century Australian art."The National Gallery of Victoria acquired the work in 1942; its first acquisition of a Drysdale painting.. Moody's pub is a 1941 painting by Australian artist Russell Drysdale. The painting depicts a pub in the Victorian town of Seymour. The painting has been described as "one of Drysdale's most celebrated paintings and among the most frequently reproduced images of twentieth-century Australian art." The National Gallery of Victoria acquired the work in 1942; its first acquisition of a Drysdale painting.. 
Portrait of a Man Rising from His Chair. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Portrait of a Man Rising from His Chair is a painting by the Dutch painter Rembrandt, painted in 1633. It hangs in the Taft Museum of Art of Cincinnati, Ohio, United States. The oil on canvas portrait measures 124 by 99 centimetres (49 in × 39 in). It is signed and dated 1633, and there is no doubt of its authenticity.. Portrait of a Man Rising from His Chair is a painting by the Dutch painter Rembrandt, painted in 1633. It hangs in the Taft Museum of Art of Cincinnati, Ohio, United States. The oil on canvas portrait measures 124 by 99 centimetres (49 in × 39 in). It is signed and dated 1633, and there is no doubt of its authenticity.. 
Death and the Sculptor. Author Name: Daniel Chester French. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/American_Renaissance. . Death and the Sculptor, also known as the Milmore Monument and The Angel of Death and the Young Sculptor is a sculpture in bronze, and one of the most important and influential works of art created by sculptor Daniel Chester French. The work was commissioned to mark the grave in Forest Hills Cemetery in Jamaica Plain, Boston, Massachusetts, of the brothers Joseph (1841-1886), James and Martin Milmore (1844-1883). It has two figures effectively in the round, linked to a background relief behind them. The right-hand figure represents a sculptor, whose hand holding a chisel is gently restrained by the fingers of the left-hand figure, representing Death, here shown as a winged female.. Death and the Sculptor, also known as the Milmore Monument and The Angel of Death and the Young Sculptor is a sculpture in bronze, and one of the most important and influential works of art created by sculptor Daniel Chester French. The work was commissioned to mark the grave in Forest Hills Cemetery in Jamaica Plain, Boston, Massachusetts, of the brothers Joseph (1841-1886), James and Martin Milmore (1844-1883). It has two figures effectively in the round, linked to a background relief behind them. The right-hand figure represents a sculptor, whose hand holding a chisel is gently restrained by the fingers of the left-hand figure, representing Death, here shown as a winged female.. 
Madonna Enthroned between Saints John the Baptist and Sebastian. Author Name: Pietro Perugino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Madonna with Child Enthroned between Saints John the Baptist and Sebastian is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Pietro Perugino, executed in 1493, and housed in the Uffizi Gallery, Florence.. Madonna with Child Enthroned between Saints John the Baptist and Sebastian is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Pietro Perugino, executed in 1493, and housed in the Uffizi Gallery, Florence.. 
Deliverance of Saint Peter. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Liberation of Saint Peter is a fresco painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael and his assistant Giulio Romano. It was painted in 1514 as part of Raphael's commission to decorate with frescoes the rooms that are now known as the Stanze di Raffaello, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. It is located in the Stanza di Eliodoro, which is named after The Expulsion of Heliodorus from the Temple. The painting shows how Saint Peter was liberated from Herod's prison by an angel, as described in Acts 12. It is technically an overdoor, probably the most majestic ever painted.. The Liberation of Saint Peter is a fresco painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael and his assistant Giulio Romano. It was painted in 1514 as part of Raphael's commission to decorate with frescoes the rooms that are now known as the Stanze di Raffaello, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. It is located in the Stanza di Eliodoro, which is named after The Expulsion of Heliodorus from the Temple. The painting shows how Saint Peter was liberated from Herod's prison by an angel, as described in Acts 12. It is technically an overdoor, probably the most majestic ever painted. The fresco shows three scenes in symmetrical balance formed by the feigned architecture and stairs. In the centre the angel wakes Peter, and on the right guides him past the sleeping guards. On the left side one guard has apparently noticed the light generated by the angel and wakes a comrade, pointing up to the miraculously illumined cell. This adds drama to the serene exit of Peter at the right.. 
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.. Author Name: Dwight, Edward. . . Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. is an outdoor 2007 bronze sculpture of Martin Luther King, Jr. by American artist Ed Dwight, installed at Hermann Park's McGovern Centennial Gardens in Houston, Texas, in the United States.. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. is an outdoor 2007 bronze sculpture of Martin Luther King, Jr. by American artist Ed Dwight, installed at Hermann Park's McGovern Centennial Gardens in Houston, Texas, in the United States.. 
Wand. Author Name: Gerhard Richter. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Capitalist_realism. . Wand (Wall) is an oil painting by Gerhard Richter executed in 1994. It was in Richter's private collection for over 15 years before he sold it to the Wako Works of Art gallery in Tokyo in 2010. It was sold at Sotheby's, London, on 12 February 2014 for £17,442,500.. Wand (Wall) is an oil painting by Gerhard Richter executed in 1994. It was in Richter's private collection for over 15 years before he sold it to the Wako Works of Art gallery in Tokyo in 2010. It was sold at Sotheby's, London, on 12 February 2014 for £17,442,500.. 
Vegetative Sculpture I. Author Name: Heiliger, Bernhard. . . Vegetative Sculpture I is a public art work by artist Bernhard Heiliger located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture has an abstract form; it is installed on the patio.. Vegetative Sculpture I is a public art work by artist Bernhard Heiliger located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture has an abstract form; it is installed on the patio.. 
Portrait of Giovanni Dolfin. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Bust of Cardinal Giovanni Dolfin or Delfin is a sculptural portrait by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini, which is part of a mausoleum for the Venetian Cardinal Giovanni Delfin, member of one of Venice's most ancient noble families. The tomb as a whole was a joint work commissioned of Bernini and his father Pietro. While Gianlorenzo executed the portrait bust, Pietro carried out the surrounding figures, including two allegorical figures of Faith and Hope as well as the Delfin family coat of arms. The work was completed in late 1621, and sits in the church of San Michele in Isola.. The Bust of Cardinal Giovanni Dolfin or Delfin is a sculptural portrait by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini, which is part of a mausoleum for the Venetian Cardinal Giovanni Delfin, member of one of Venice's most ancient noble families. The tomb as a whole was a joint work commissioned of Bernini and his father Pietro. While Gianlorenzo executed the portrait bust, Pietro carried out the surrounding figures, including two allegorical figures of Faith and Hope as well as the Delfin family coat of arms. The work was completed in late 1621, and sits in the church of San Michele in Isola.. 
Agony in the Garden. Author Name: Pietro Perugino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Agony in the Garden is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Pietro Perugino, executed around 1483-1493, and housed in the Uffizi Gallery, Florence.. Agony in the Garden is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Pietro Perugino, executed around 1483-1493, and housed in the Uffizi Gallery, Florence.. 
The Annunciation, with Saint Emidius. Author Name: Carlo Crivelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Gothic_art. . The Annunciation, with Saint Emidius is an altarpiece by Italian artist Carlo Crivelli showing an artistic adaptation of the Annunciation. The altarpiece was painted for the Church of SS. Annunziata in the Italian town of Ascoli Piceno to celebrate the self-government granted to the town in 1482 by Pope Sixtus IV. The painting is housed in the National Gallery of London since 1864 when it was donated there by Lord Taunton.. The Annunciation, with Saint Emidius is an altarpiece by Italian artist Carlo Crivelli showing an artistic adaptation of the Annunciation. The altarpiece was painted for the Church of SS. Annunziata in the Italian town of Ascoli Piceno to celebrate the self-government granted to the town in 1482 by Pope Sixtus IV. The painting is housed in the National Gallery of London since 1864 when it was donated there by Lord Taunton.. 
Annelies, White Tulips and Anemones. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . Annelies, White Tulips and Anemones is a painting by Henri Matisse from 1944.The painting depicts a woman smiling at a table with flowers aligned on it. The painting is currently in the Honolulu Museum of Art. During the early to mid-1940s Matisse was in poor health. Eventually by 1950 he stopped painting in favor of his paper cutouts. This is an example of one of the final group of oil paintings in Matisse's career.. Annelies, White Tulips and Anemones is a painting by Henri Matisse from 1944. The painting depicts a woman smiling at a table with flowers aligned on it. The painting is currently in the Honolulu Museum of Art. During the early to mid-1940s Matisse was in poor health. Eventually by 1950 he stopped painting in favor of his paper cutouts. This is an example of one of the final group of oil paintings in Matisse's career.. 
Medusa. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Medusa is a marble sculpture of the eponymous character from the classical myth. It was executed by the Italian sculptor Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Its precise date of creation is unknown, but it is likely to have been executed in the 1630s. It was first documented in 1731 when presented to the Palazzo dei Conservatori in Rome, and is now part of the collections of the Capitoline Museums.. Medusa is a marble sculpture of the eponymous character from the classical myth. It was executed by the Italian sculptor Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Its precise date of creation is unknown, but it is likely to have been executed in the 1630s. It was first documented in 1731 when presented to the Palazzo dei Conservatori in Rome, and is now part of the collections of the Capitoline Museums.. 
The Jester Don Diego de Acedo. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Jester Don Diego de Acedo is one of a series of portraits of jesters at the court of Philip IV of Spain by Diego Velázquez. Its subject is the dwarf Don Diego de Acedo, known as "el Primo" (the Cousin). The 1645 oil painting is currently housed at the Prado Museum. The work measures 106 cm high and 83 cm wide.Velázquez painted a series of portraits of dwarfs and jesters of the court of Philip IV, depicted with realism and respect. The portraits were intended to be displayed in the king's hunting lodge, the Torre de la Parada.. The Jester Don Diego de Acedo is one of a series of portraits of jesters at the court of Philip IV of Spain by Diego Velázquez. Its subject is the dwarf Don Diego de Acedo, known as "el Primo" (the Cousin). The 1645 oil painting is currently housed at the Prado Museum. The work measures 106 cm high and 83 cm wide. Velázquez painted a series of portraits of dwarfs and jesters of the court of Philip IV, depicted with realism and respect. The portraits were intended to be displayed in the king's hunting lodge, the Torre de la Parada. Don Diego de Acedo was a figure of fun whose physical deformity provided entertainment for the court. As with another subject, Portrait of Sebastián de Morra, Velázquez pictured de Acedo's whole body seated on the ground. Don Diego de Acedo is pictured looking at the observer. Dressed in black, he is reading a book, which is the traditional representation of a gentleman. The size of the tome in his lap emphasizes the dwarf's smallness. The eyes, high forehead and attitude of the model conveys a sense of his intelligence. At his feet lay a pile of books with an inkwell and feather. The bottom is possibly unfinished, as a foggy landscape can be seen.. 
Grotto in the Gulf of Salerno - moonlight. Author Name: Joseph Wright. . . Grotto in the Gulf of Salerno is the subject of at least 4 paintings completed by Joseph Wright of Derby following his visit there in 1774. The picture show the different lighting at different times of the day.. Grotto in the Gulf of Salerno is the subject of at least 4 paintings completed by Joseph Wright of Derby following his visit there in 1774. The picture show the different lighting at different times of the day.. 
Rhein II. Author Name: Andreas Gursky. . . Rhein II is a photograph made by German visual artist Andreas Gursky in 1999. In 2011, a print was auctioned for $4.3 million (then £2.7m), making it the most expensive photograph ever sold.The photograph was produced as the second (and largest) of a set of six depicting the River Rhine. In the image, the Rhine flows horizontally across the field of view, between green fields, under an overcast sky.. Rhein II is a photograph made by German visual artist Andreas Gursky in 1999. In 2011, a print was auctioned for $4.3 million (then £2.7m), making it the most expensive photograph ever sold. The photograph was produced as the second (and largest) of a set of six depicting the River Rhine. In the image, the Rhine flows horizontally across the field of view, between green fields, under an overcast sky. Extraneous details such as dog-walkers and a factory building were removed by the artist using digital editing. Justifying this manipulation of the image, Gursky said "Paradoxically, this view of the Rhine cannot be obtained in situ, a fictitious construction was required to provide an accurate image of a modern river." Gursky produced a very large chromogenic colour print of the photograph, mounted it onto acrylic glass, and then placed it in a frame. The image itself measures 73 by 143 inches (190 cm × 360 cm), while the frame measures 81 by 151 inches (210 cm × 380 cm). The print was originally acquired by the Galerie Monika Sprüth in Cologne, and subsequently bought by an anonymous German collector. The collector sold the print by auction at Christie's New York on 8 November 2011, who estimated it would fetch a price of $2.5–3.5m. It actually sold for $4,338,500 (then about £2.7m); the identity of the buyer has not been revealed. The work has been described by arts writer Florence Waters in The Daily Telegraph as a "vibrant, beautiful and memorable – I should say unforgettable – contemporary twist on [...] the romantic landscape" and by journalist Maev Kennedy in The Guardian as "a sludgy image of the grey Rhine under grey skies".. 
Andromache Mourning Hector. Author Name: Jacques-Louis David. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . Andromache Mourning Hector is a 1783 oil painting by Jacques-Louis David. The painting depicts an image from Homer's Iliad, showing Andromache, comforted by her son, mourning over her husband Hector, who has been killed by Achilles. This painting, presented on 23 August 1783, brought David election to the Académie Royale in 1784.. Andromache Mourning Hector is a 1783 oil painting by Jacques-Louis David. The painting depicts an image from Homer's Iliad, showing Andromache, comforted by her son, mourning over her husband Hector, who has been killed by Achilles. This painting, presented on 23 August 1783, brought David election to the Académie Royale in 1784.. 
View of Delft. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . View of Delft (Dutch: Gezicht op Delft) is an oil painting by Johannes Vermeer, painted ca. 1660–1661. The painting of the Dutch artist's hometown is among his most popular, painted at a time when cityscapes were not commonplace. It is one of three known paintings of Delft by Vermeer, along with The Little Street and the lost painting House Standing in Delft. The use of pointillism in the work suggests that it postdates The Little Street.. View of Delft (Dutch: Gezicht op Delft) is an oil painting by Johannes Vermeer, painted ca. 1660–1661. The painting of the Dutch artist's hometown is among his most popular, painted at a time when cityscapes were not commonplace. It is one of three known paintings of Delft by Vermeer, along with The Little Street and the lost painting House Standing in Delft. The use of pointillism in the work suggests that it postdates The Little Street.. 
The Westoe Netty. Author Name: Olley, Robert. . . The Westoe Netty is a painting by Robert Olley. It depicts a historical scene inside a public toilet (Netty is a Geordie dialect word for toilet). Painted in 1972, it has become a cultural symbol of North East England working class history.Unfortunately by 2010 the authenticity of the rebuilt North Eastern icon became a victim of its own success as its visitors thought it was for public use so a decision to retire it into temporary storage until funds allowed the Westoe Netty to be relocated, reconstructed and plumbed in as a working urinal.. The Westoe Netty is a painting by Robert Olley. It depicts a historical scene inside a public toilet (Netty is a Geordie dialect word for toilet). Painted in 1972, it has become a cultural symbol of North East England working class history. Olley was a former miner turned local artist, and his painting was inspired by a real toilet that was formerly sited in Westoe, South Shields. His painting depicted six working class men and a little boy using the netty, which was used by workers travelling to the nearby Westoe Colliery. The painting portrays the wall of the netty covered in humorous and often vulgar graffiti, reflecting many local phrases and cultural references. The original toilet was built in 1890. When the area it was sited in was earmarked for regeneration, the toilet was saved from demolition by friends of the artist, who dismantled it and put into storage in 1996 in a local shipyard. In 2008 the toilet was rebuilt as a permanent exhibit at the Beamish Museum, County Durham, and opened on 25 July 2008 with a recreation of the picture's scene staged for the media. Unfortunately by 2010 the authenticity of the rebuilt North Eastern icon became a victim of its own success as its visitors thought it was for public use so a decision to retire it into temporary storage until funds allowed the Westoe Netty to be relocated, reconstructed and plumbed in as a working urinal.. 
The Doge on the Bucintoro near the Riva di Sant'Elena. Author Name: Francesco Guardi. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Venetian_school_(art). . The Doge on the Bucintoro near the Riva di Sant'Elena (also known as The Departure of the Bucentaur for the Ascension Day Ceremony, and other similar titles) is an oil on canvas by Venetian painter Francesco Guardi, a member of the Venetian School. It was painted between 1766 and 1770, and is currently held and exhibited at the Louvre in Paris.. The Doge on the Bucintoro near the Riva di Sant'Elena (also known as The Departure of the Bucentaur for the Ascension Day Ceremony, and other similar titles) is an oil on canvas by Venetian painter Francesco Guardi, a member of the Venetian School. It was painted between 1766 and 1770, and is currently held and exhibited at the Louvre in Paris.. 
The Spear. Author Name: Brett Murray. . . The Spear is a painting by Cape Town-based South African artist, Brett Murray. It depicts South African President Jacob Zuma in a pose reminiscent of Lenin, with his genitals exposed. The painting triggered a defamation lawsuit by Zuma's party, the African National Congress (ANC), and was vandalised on 22 May 2012.. The Spear is a painting by Cape Town-based South African artist, Brett Murray. It depicts South African President Jacob Zuma in a pose reminiscent of Lenin, with his genitals exposed. The painting triggered a defamation lawsuit by Zuma's party, the African National Congress (ANC), and was vandalised on 22 May 2012.. 
Portrait of Louis Pasteur. Author Name: Albert Edelfelt. . . Pasteur's portrait by Edelfelt is the best known portrait of the French chemist Louis Pasteur. Painted by Albert Edelfelt (1854 – 1905) in 1885 the painting shows Pasteur in his laboratory at the rue d'Ulm, surrounded by his experimental apparatus, the innovative laboratory glassware used in the experimental methods, developed by him on the field of bacteriology in the late 19th century.Pasteur is regarded as one of the main founders of bacteriology, and he is popularly known as the "father of microbiology".. Pasteur's portrait by Edelfelt is the best known portrait of the French chemist Louis Pasteur. Painted by Albert Edelfelt (1854 – 1905) in 1885 the painting shows Pasteur in his laboratory at the rue d'Ulm, surrounded by his experimental apparatus, the innovative laboratory glassware used in the experimental methods, developed by him on the field of bacteriology in the late 19th century. Pasteur is regarded as one of the main founders of bacteriology, and he is popularly known as the "father of microbiology".. 
Daisy Bates at Ooldea. Author Name: Nolan, Sidney. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Angry_Penguins. . Daisy Bates at Ooldea is a painting by Australian artist Sidney Nolan, completed in Sydney in 1950 after Nolan, his wife Cynthia and stepdaughter Jinx visited the small South Australian settlement of Ooldea during their travels in Central Australia. The painting shows Irish Australian anthropologist Daisy Bates (1859–1951) standing alone in stark, barren landscape. Bates became famous for spending most of her later years living among Aboriginal tribes in the outback, including sixteen years at Ooldea.. Daisy Bates at Ooldea is a painting by Australian artist Sidney Nolan, completed in Sydney in 1950 after Nolan, his wife Cynthia and stepdaughter Jinx visited the small South Australian settlement of Ooldea during their travels in Central Australia. The painting shows Irish Australian anthropologist Daisy Bates (1859–1951) standing alone in stark, barren landscape. Bates became famous for spending most of her later years living among Aboriginal tribes in the outback, including sixteen years at Ooldea. Daisy Bates at Ooldea was acquired by the National Gallery of Australia in 1987. It was included in the 2000 international exhibition Painting the Century: 101 Portrait Masterpieces 1900–2000, held at the National Portrait Gallery in London.. 
Mother & Child. Author Name: Sorel Etrog. . . Mother & Child is an abstract sculpture by Sorel Etrog.. Mother & Child is an abstract sculpture by Sorel Etrog.. 
Lipstick  on Caterpillar Tracks. Author Name: Claes Oldenburg. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Lipstick (Ascending) on Caterpillar Tracks is a weathering steel sculpture by Claes Oldenburg.It is located at Morse College Courtyard, Yale University.. Lipstick (Ascending) on Caterpillar Tracks is a weathering steel sculpture by Claes Oldenburg. It is located at Morse College Courtyard, Yale University.. 
Dead Christ Supported by Two Angels. Author Name: Giovanni Bellini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . Dead Christ Supported by Two Angels is a painting by Italian Renaissance painter Giovanni Bellini, created around 1460. It is housed in the Museo Correr in Venice.The panel is one of Bellini's earliest Pietà compositions, together with those in the Accademia Carrara of Bergamo and in the Museo Poldi Pezzoli of Milan. The date in the sepulchre's edge (1499) is apocriphal, such as Albrecht Dürer's monogram.. Dead Christ Supported by Two Angels is a painting by Italian Renaissance painter Giovanni Bellini, created around 1460. It is housed in the Museo Correr in Venice. The panel is one of Bellini's earliest Pietà compositions, together with those in the Accademia Carrara of Bergamo and in the Museo Poldi Pezzoli of Milan. The date in the sepulchre's edge (1499) is apocriphal, such as Albrecht Dürer's monogram.. 
Francisco Lezcano, el Niño de Vallecas. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Portrait of Francisco Lezcano or The "Niño de Vallecas" is the 1645 portrait by Diego Velázquez of Francisco Lezcano (died 1649), also known as Lezcanillo or el Vizcaíno, a jester at the court of Philip IV of Spain. It has been in the Prado since 1819.On 28 July 1714 it was moved to the Palacio del Pardo, before appearing in 1772 at the home of infante Javier in the new Palacio Real in Madrid. In 1794 it was in the "Pieza de Trucos" of the same palace, at which time it gained its alternative name of "Niño de Vallecas".. Portrait of Francisco Lezcano or The "Niño de Vallecas" is the 1645 portrait by Diego Velázquez of Francisco Lezcano (died 1649), also known as Lezcanillo or el Vizcaíno, a jester at the court of Philip IV of Spain. It has been in the Prado since 1819. The mountains round Madrid can be seen in the right background, whilst the subject holds cards in his hands. He is shown with his head slightly tilted and his right leg stuck out, in a pose possibly meant to imply his physical or psychological disability. The painting is part of a series of paintings of jesters at the court, and this one was possibly painted whilst the subject was accompanying the king on a hunt, since he is shown in hunting attire in the open air. It was produced for display in the Torre de la Parada (a hunting lodge on the outskirts of Madrid in the Sierra de Guadarrama near El Pardo). On 28 July 1714 it was moved to the Palacio del Pardo, before appearing in 1772 at the home of infante Javier in the new Palacio Real in Madrid. In 1794 it was in the "Pieza de Trucos" of the same palace, at which time it gained its alternative name of "Niño de Vallecas".. 
The Conversion of Saul. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Conversion of Saul is a fresco painted by the Italian Renaissance master Michelangelo Buonarroti (c. 1542–1545). It is housed in the Cappella Paolina, Vatican Palace, in the Vatican City. The style is more mannerist than his earlier Sistine Chapel frescoes, and was not as well received by contemporaries. The next fresco he completed was The Crucifixion of St. Peter.. The Conversion of Saul is a fresco painted by the Italian Renaissance master Michelangelo Buonarroti (c. 1542–1545). It is housed in the Cappella Paolina, Vatican Palace, in the Vatican City. The style is more mannerist than his earlier Sistine Chapel frescoes, and was not as well received by contemporaries. The next fresco he completed was The Crucifixion of St. Peter.. 
Ascension. Author Name: Lucien Wercollier. . . Ascension is the name of two sculptures created in 1978 and 1986 by Luxembourgish sculptor Lucien Wercollier.. Ascension is the name of two sculptures created in 1978 and 1986 by Luxembourgish sculptor Lucien Wercollier.. 
Portrait of a Young Man. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Portrait of a Young Man is a painting in oil on panel, probably from 1513–1514, by the Italian High Renaissance Old Master painter and architect Raffaello Sanzio da Urbino better known simply as Raphael. The painting was stolen by the Nazis from Poland. Many historians regard it as the most important painting missing since World War II.. Portrait of a Young Man is a painting in oil on panel, probably from 1513–1514, by the Italian High Renaissance Old Master painter and architect Raffaello Sanzio da Urbino better known simply as Raphael. The painting was stolen by the Nazis from Poland. Many historians regard it as the most important painting missing since World War II. The subject's identity is unverified, but many scholars have traditionally regarded it as Raphael's self-portrait. The facial features are perceived by specialists as compatible with, if not clearly identical to, the only undoubted self-portrait by Raphael in his fresco The School of Athens at the Vatican, identified as such by Vasari. If it is a self-portrait, no hint is given of Raphael's profession; the portrait shows a richly-dressed and "confidently-poised" young man. If it can be accepted that this painting was indeed created by Raphael as a self-portrait, then he apparently identified particularly with the female gender, just as Leonardo da Vinci did in the Mona Lisa. As a portrait painting of the ancient High Renaissance, Raphael's emphasis on erect poise, gesture, texture, decorous ornament, and softened form all represented cultivated Mannerist expression with the attributes of the noble class in a style which spread through southern Italy after Raphael's death. Here, the textural details of a flesh colored wall, sable fur, and wavy dark hair not only strike a Neo-Classical, sensitive balance between real humanity and nature, they extend gestures seen in previous female hand placement to stress man's role as a well-travelled humanist. Raphael humanized male gender so that the sleeve ribbon and hazy edges around hair and landscape reflected the interchangeability of each gender. A left palm placed near the heart emphasized self-identity and a passionate stance within the "right" spiritual context of Raphael's Counter-Reformation era. A striking contrast between pure white and sable intensified the doctrinal harmony between Heaven and Earth. It is probable that Raphael's studious approach to idealized representation of human proportion was based on his studies of ancient athletic and military heroes in Classical sculpture such as Doryphoros and Augustus of Prima Porta. The painting was brought to Poland, along with Leonardo da Vinci's Lady with an Ermine and many Roman antiquities, by Prince Adam Jerzy Czartoryski, son of Princess Izabela Czartoryska, on his travels to Italy in 1798.. 
St. Michael Vanquishing Satan. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . St. Michael Vanquishing Satan is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael.It is a large-scale and mature version of a subject he had earlier treated in the youthful miniature of St. Michael. Both works are located in the Louvre in Paris, France.. St. Michael Vanquishing Satan is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael. It is a large-scale and mature version of a subject he had earlier treated in the youthful miniature of St. Michael. Both works are located in the Louvre in Paris, France.. 
Terrestrial Paradise. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . Terrestrial Paradise is a painting by Netherlandish artist Hieronymus Bosch, dating from around 1490. It is currently housed in the Palazzo Grimani di Santa Maria Formosa in Venice, Italy. The painting depicts Terrestrial Paradise, where the remaining sins of the saved were washed away. The Fountain of Life stands on top of the hill.This artwork is part of a series of four, the others are Ascent of the Blessed, Fall of the Damned and Hell.. Terrestrial Paradise is a painting by Netherlandish artist Hieronymus Bosch, dating from around 1490. It is currently housed in the Palazzo Grimani di Santa Maria Formosa in Venice, Italy. The painting depicts Terrestrial Paradise, where the remaining sins of the saved were washed away. The Fountain of Life stands on top of the hill. This artwork is part of a series of four, the others are Ascent of the Blessed, Fall of the Damned and Hell.. 
Portrait of Pietro Aretino. Author Name: Titian. . . The Portrait of Pietro Aretino is a portrait of the Renaissance poet Pietro Aretino by Titian, painted around 1545, possibly for Cosimo I de' Medici. It is now in the sali di Venere of Palazzo Pitti in Florence.. The Portrait of Pietro Aretino is a portrait of the Renaissance poet Pietro Aretino by Titian, painted around 1545, possibly for Cosimo I de' Medici. It is now in the sali di Venere of Palazzo Pitti in Florence.. 
The Dream. Author Name: Henri Rousseau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Naïve_art. . The Dream (French: Le Rêve, occasionally also known as Le Songe or Rêve exotique) is a large oil-on-canvas painting created by Henri Rousseau in 1910, one of more than 25 Rousseau paintings with a jungle theme. His last completed work, it was first exhibited at the Salon des Indépendants from 18 March to 1 May 1910, a few months before his death on 2 September 1910. Rousseau's earlier works had received a negative reception, but poet and critic Guillaume Apollinaire remarked on its debut: "The picture radiates beauty, that is indisputable. I believe nobody will laugh this year.". The Dream (French: Le Rêve, occasionally also known as Le Songe or Rêve exotique) is a large oil-on-canvas painting created by Henri Rousseau in 1910, one of more than 25 Rousseau paintings with a jungle theme. His last completed work, it was first exhibited at the Salon des Indépendants from 18 March to 1 May 1910, a few months before his death on 2 September 1910. Rousseau's earlier works had received a negative reception, but poet and critic Guillaume Apollinaire remarked on its debut: "The picture radiates beauty, that is indisputable. I believe nobody will laugh this year." The Dream is the largest of the jungle paintings, measuring 6' 8½" x 9' 9½" (204.5 x 298.5 cm). It features an almost surreal portrait of Yadwigha (Jadwiga), Rousseau's Polish mistress from his youth, lying naked on a divan to the left of the painting, gazing over a landscape of lush jungle foliage, including lotus flowers, and animals including birds, monkeys, an elephant, a lion and lioness, and a snake. The stylised forms of the jungle plants are based on Rousseau's observations at the Paris Museum of Natural History and its Jardin des Plantes. The nude's left arm reaches towards the lions and a black snake charmer who faces the viewer playing his flute, barely visible in the gloom of the jungle under the dim light of the full moon. A pink-bellied snake slithers through the undergrowth, its sinuous form reflecting the curves of the woman's hips and leg. Suspecting that some viewers did not understand the painting, Rousseau wrote a poem to accompany it, Inscription pour La Rêve: One possible interpretation of the painting, offered by Rousseau in a letter to art critic André Dupont, is that it depicts a woman reclining on a couch in Paris, dreaming she is listening to a flute player in the jungle. The subject of a reclining nude draws from a classical tradition, from Titian’s 1538 painting Venus of Urbino to Manet's 1863 painting Olympia. Rousseau may have taken some inspiration from Émile Zola’s novel Le Rêve, which deals with the love between a painter and an embroideress. While he was painting The Dream, Rousseau was romantically involved with a shop assistant, Leonie. French art dealer Ambroise Vollard bought the painting from Rousseau in February 1910. It was sold through Knoedler Galleries in New York to clothing manufacturer and art collector Sidney Janis in January 1934. Janis sold the painting to Nelson A. Rockefeller in 1954, who donated it to the Museum of Modern Art, New York to celebrate the Museum's 25th anniversary. It remains on display at MoMA.. 
Water Art. Author Name: Anders Tinsbo. . . Water Art is a sculpture by Danish artist Anders Tinsbo that is on permanent display near Rundetårn in Copenhagen.. Water Art is a sculpture by Danish artist Anders Tinsbo that is on permanent display near Rundetårn in Copenhagen.. 
The Calling. Author Name: Mark di Suvero. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . The Calling is a public artwork by American artist Mark di Suvero located in O'Donnell Park, which is on the lakefront in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States. The artwork was made in 1981-82 from steel I-beams painted an orange-red color. It measures 40 feet in height, and it sits at the end of Wisconsin Avenue in front of the footbridge that leads to the Milwaukee Art Museum.. The Calling is a public artwork by American artist Mark di Suvero located in O'Donnell Park, which is on the lakefront in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States. The artwork was made in 1981-82 from steel I-beams painted an orange-red color. It measures 40 feet in height, and it sits at the end of Wisconsin Avenue in front of the footbridge that leads to the Milwaukee Art Museum.. 
Murdering Airplane. Author Name: Max Ernst. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dada. . Murdering Airplane (1920) is a collage by the German dadaist/surrealist Max Ernst. It depicts a monstrous aircraft with human arms flying over an open field. In the lower right-hand corner two soldiers are carrying a third wounded soldier.The Dada movement was created partly as a critical response to World War I. This had a special significance to Ernst who served in the war. This work was a statement on the advent of aerial warfare that occurred in that war.. Murdering Airplane (1920) is a collage by the German dadaist/surrealist Max Ernst. It depicts a monstrous aircraft with human arms flying over an open field. In the lower right-hand corner two soldiers are carrying a third wounded soldier. The Dada movement was created partly as a critical response to World War I. This had a special significance to Ernst who served in the war. This work was a statement on the advent of aerial warfare that occurred in that war.. 
The Potato Eaters. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . The Potato Eaters (Dutch: De Aardappeleters) is an oil painting by Dutch artist Vincent van Gogh painted in April 1885 in Nuenen, Netherlands. It is in the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam. A preliminary oil sketch of the painting is at the Kröller-Müller Museum in Otterlo, and he also made lithographs of the image, which are held in collections including the Museum of Modern Art in New York City.. The Potato Eaters (Dutch: De Aardappeleters) is an oil painting by Dutch artist Vincent van Gogh painted in April 1885 in Nuenen, Netherlands. It is in the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam. A preliminary oil sketch of the painting is at the Kröller-Müller Museum in Otterlo, and he also made lithographs of the image, which are held in collections including the Museum of Modern Art in New York City.. 
The Baptism of Christ. Author Name: Andrea del Verrocchio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Baptism of Christ is a painting finished around 1475 in the studio of the Italian Renaissance painter Andrea del Verrocchio and generally ascribed to him and his pupil Leonardo da Vinci. Some art historians discern the hands of other members of Verrocchio's workshop in the painting as well. The picture depicts the Baptism of Jesus by John the Baptist as recorded in the Biblical Gospels of Matthew, Mark and Luke. The angel to the left is recorded as having been painted by the youthful Leonardo, a fact which has excited so much special comment and mythology, that the importance and value of the picture as a whole and within the œuvre of Verrocchio is often overlooked. Modern critics also attribute much of the landscape in the background and the figure of Christ to Leonardo da Vinci as we. The Baptism of Christ is a painting finished around 1475 in the studio of the Italian Renaissance painter Andrea del Verrocchio and generally ascribed to him and his pupil Leonardo da Vinci. Some art historians discern the hands of other members of Verrocchio's workshop in the painting as well. The picture depicts the Baptism of Jesus by John the Baptist as recorded in the Biblical Gospels of Matthew, Mark and Luke. The angel to the left is recorded as having been painted by the youthful Leonardo, a fact which has excited so much special comment and mythology, that the importance and value of the picture as a whole and within the œuvre of Verrocchio is often overlooked. Modern critics also attribute much of the landscape in the background and the figure of Christ to Leonardo da Vinci as well The painting is housed in the Uffizi Gallery in Florence.. 
Breezing Up. Author Name: Winslow Homer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Breezing Up (A Fair Wind) is an oil painting by American artist Winslow Homer. It depicts a catboat called the Gloucester chopping through that city's harbor under "a fair wind" (Homer's original title). Inside the boat are a man, three boys, and their catch.Today, Breezing Up is considered an iconic American painting, and among Homer's finest. The National Gallery of Art purchased the work in 1943, described by the institution's web site as "one of the best-known and most beloved artistic images of life in nineteenth-century America.". Breezing Up (A Fair Wind) is an oil painting by American artist Winslow Homer. It depicts a catboat called the Gloucester chopping through that city's harbor under "a fair wind" (Homer's original title). Inside the boat are a man, three boys, and their catch. Homer began the canvas in New York in 1873, after he had visited Gloucester, Massachusetts, where he first worked in watercolor. He used the sketches made there, of which the most closely related is Sailing the Catboat (1873), for the oil painting, which he worked on over three years. Infrared reflectography has revealed the many changes he made to the composition during this time, including the removal of a fourth boy near the mast and a second schooner in the distance. At one point the adult held both the sheet and the tiller, a position initially adapted from an oil study of 1874 titled The Flirt. The painting's message is positive; despite the choppy waves, the boaters look relaxed. The anchor that replaced the boy in the bow was understood to symbolize hope. The boy holding the tiller looks forward to the horizon, a statement of optimism about his future and that of the young United States. The finished work indicates that the significant influence of Japanese art on Western painters in the 19th century also touched Homer, particularly in the compositional balance between the left (active) and right (sparse) halves. Homer had visited France in 1866 and 1867, and the influence of marine scenes by the French painters Gustave Courbet and Claude Monet is apparent as well. Not all of Homer's sea pictures are so benevolent as Breezing Up: he portrayed waves crashing ashore as did Courbet (see for example The Wave, c. 1869). Monet's relatively early paintings Seascape: Storm (1867) and The Green Wave (1866) show boats on somewhat turbulent seas. Completed in the centennial year 1876, the painting was first exhibited at the National Academy of Design that year, then at the Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia. By 1879, it had come to be known as Breezing Up, a title that was not the artist's but one which he did not seem to object to. A contemporary critic described the painting: "It is painted in [Homer's] customary coarse and negligé style, but suggests with unmistakable force the life and motion of a breezy summer day off the coast. The fishing boat, bending to the wind, seems actually to cleave the waves. There is no truer or heartier work in the exhibition." Another wrote, "Much has already been said in praise of the easy, elastic motion of the figures of the party in the sailboat, which is scudding along through blue water under 'a fair wind.' They sway with the rolling boat, and relax or grow rigid as the light keel rises or sinks upon the waves. Every person who has been similarly situated can recall how, involuntarily, his back stiffened or his knees bent as he felt the roll of the waves beneath him." Today, Breezing Up is considered an iconic American painting, and among Homer's finest. The National Gallery of Art purchased the work in 1943, described by the institution's web site as "one of the best-known and most beloved artistic images of life in nineteenth-century America.". 
Portrait of Leslie W. Miller. Author Name: Thomas Eakins. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Portrait of Leslie W. Miller is a 1901 painting by Thomas Eakins, Goodrich #348. It is in the permanent collection of the Philadelphia Museum of Art.. Portrait of Leslie W. Miller is a 1901 painting by Thomas Eakins, Goodrich #348. It is in the permanent collection of the Philadelphia Museum of Art.. 
Le pigeon aux petits pois. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Le pigeon aux petit pois (The Pigeon with Green Peas) is a 1911 painting by Pablo Picasso. It was one of five paintings stolen from the Musée d'Art Moderne de la Ville de Paris on 20 May 2010, which together are worth about €100 million ($123 million).The thief and his sponsor were found the following year, and the latter has declared that he was seized by panic after a police raid and a phone call by the police, and put the painting in a rubbish container. However the police doubt that assertion.. Le pigeon aux petit pois (The Pigeon with Green Peas) is a 1911 painting by Pablo Picasso. It was one of five paintings stolen from the Musée d'Art Moderne de la Ville de Paris on 20 May 2010, which together are worth about €100 million ($123 million). The thief and his sponsor were found the following year, and the latter has declared that he was seized by panic after a police raid and a phone call by the police, and put the painting in a rubbish container. However the police doubt that assertion.. 
The Headless Horseman Pursuing Ichabod Crane. Author Name: John Quidor. . . The Headless Horseman Pursuing Ichabod Crane (1858) is a painting by American artist John Quidor, depicting a scene from Washington Irving's short story "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow".The painting is one of several by the artist based on scenes from Irving's written works about Dutch New York, including such paintings as Ichabod Crane Flying from the Headless Horseman (1828) and The Return of Rip Van Winkle (1849).Quidor first exhibited the picture at the National Academy of Design in New York City. It is currently displayed in the Smithsonian American Art Museum in Washington, D.C... The Headless Horseman Pursuing Ichabod Crane (1858) is a painting by American artist John Quidor, depicting a scene from Washington Irving's short story "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow". The painting is one of several by the artist based on scenes from Irving's written works about Dutch New York, including such paintings as Ichabod Crane Flying from the Headless Horseman (1828) and The Return of Rip Van Winkle (1849). Quidor first exhibited the picture at the National Academy of Design in New York City. It is currently displayed in the Smithsonian American Art Museum in Washington, D.C... 
The Church at Auvers. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . The Church at Auvers is an oil painting created by Dutch post-impressionist artist Vincent van Gogh in June 1890 which now hangs in the Musée d'Orsay in Paris, France.The actual church is in Place de l'Eglise, Auvers-sur-Oise, France, 27 km northwest of Paris.. The Church at Auvers is an oil painting created by Dutch post-impressionist artist Vincent van Gogh in June 1890 which now hangs in the Musée d'Orsay in Paris, France. The actual church is in Place de l'Eglise, Auvers-sur-Oise, France, 27 km northwest of Paris.. 
Two Male Heads. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . Two Male Heads is a painting by Hieronymus Bosch. It is currently in the Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen in Rotterdam.This is one of the smallest of Bosch's creations.. Two Male Heads is a painting by Hieronymus Bosch. It is currently in the Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen in Rotterdam. This is one of the smallest of Bosch's creations.. 
The Starry Night. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . The Starry Night is an oil on canvas by the Dutch post-impressionist painter Vincent van Gogh. Painted in June, 1889, it depicts the view from the east-facing window of his asylum room at Saint-Rémy-de-Provence, just before sunrise, with the addition of an idealized village. It has been in the permanent collection of the Museum of Modern Art in New York City since 1941, acquired through the Lillie P. Bliss Bequest. It is regarded as among Van Gogh's finest works, and is one of the most recognized paintings in the history of Western culture.. The Starry Night is an oil on canvas by the Dutch post-impressionist painter Vincent van Gogh. Painted in June, 1889, it depicts the view from the east-facing window of his asylum room at Saint-Rémy-de-Provence, just before sunrise, with the addition of an idealized village. It has been in the permanent collection of the Museum of Modern Art in New York City since 1941, acquired through the Lillie P. Bliss Bequest. It is regarded as among Van Gogh's finest works, and is one of the most recognized paintings in the history of Western culture.. 
Needle, Thread and Knot. Author Name: Bruggen, Coosje van. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Needle, Thread and Knot (Italian: Ago, Filo e Nodo) is a public artwork in two parts by Claes Oldenburg and Coosje van Bruggen in Piazzale Cadorna, Milan, Italy.Commissioned by the City of Milan as part of the renovations of the Milan Cadorna railway station, and unveiled in February 2000, the sculpture is made of stainless steel and reinforced plastic, painted with polyester gelcoat and polyurethane enamel. The "knot" is placed in the middle of a fountain on the middle of the square while the sewing needle is on the footpath in front of the train station. According to the artists the needle pulling thread through fabric is a metaphor for a train going through a tunnel. The thread wrapped around a needle also "paraphrased" the city emblem of a snake coiled around a sword. According to the . Needle, Thread and Knot (Italian: Ago, Filo e Nodo) is a public artwork in two parts by Claes Oldenburg and Coosje van Bruggen in Piazzale Cadorna, Milan, Italy. Commissioned by the City of Milan as part of the renovations of the Milan Cadorna railway station, and unveiled in February 2000, the sculpture is made of stainless steel and reinforced plastic, painted with polyester gelcoat and polyurethane enamel. The "knot" is placed in the middle of a fountain on the middle of the square while the sewing needle is on the footpath in front of the train station. According to the artists the needle pulling thread through fabric is a metaphor for a train going through a tunnel. The thread wrapped around a needle also "paraphrased" the city emblem of a snake coiled around a sword. According to the City of Milan it is also meant as a tribute to Milan's influence in the fashion industry and the three thread colours (red, green, yellow) represent the lines of the Milan Metro.. 
The Face of War. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The Face of War (The Visage of War; in Spanish La Cara de la Guerra) (1940) is a painting by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dalí. It was painted during a brief period when the artist lived in California.The trauma and the view of war had often served as inspiration for Dalí’s work. He sometimes believed his artistic vision to be premonitions of war. This work was painted between the end of the Spanish Civil War and beginning of the Second World War.. The Face of War (The Visage of War; in Spanish La Cara de la Guerra) (1940) is a painting by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dalí. It was painted during a brief period when the artist lived in California. The trauma and the view of war had often served as inspiration for Dalí’s work. He sometimes believed his artistic vision to be premonitions of war. This work was painted between the end of the Spanish Civil War and beginning of the Second World War. The painting depicts a disembodied face hovering against a barren desert landscape. The face is withered like that of a corpse and wears an expression of misery. In its mouth and eye sockets are identical faces. In their mouths and eyes are more identical faces in a process implied to be infinite. Swarming around the large face are biting serpents. In the lower right corner is a hand print that Dalí insisted was left by his own hand.. 
The Madonna with the Long Neck. Author Name: Parmigianino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . The Madonna of the Long Neck (Italian: Madonna dal collo lungo), also known as Madonna and Child with Angels and St. Jerome, is an Italian Mannerist oil painting by the painter Parmigianino, dating from c. 1535-1540 and depicting Madonna and Child with angels. The painting was begun in 1534 for the funerary chapel of Francesco Tagliaferri in Parma, but remained incomplete on Parmigianino's death in 1540. Ferdinando de' Medici, Grand Prince of Tuscany purchased it in 1698 and it has been on display at the Uffizi since 1948.. The Madonna of the Long Neck (Italian: Madonna dal collo lungo), also known as Madonna and Child with Angels and St. Jerome, is an Italian Mannerist oil painting by the painter Parmigianino, dating from c. 1535-1540 and depicting Madonna and Child with angels. The painting was begun in 1534 for the funerary chapel of Francesco Tagliaferri in Parma, but remained incomplete on Parmigianino's death in 1540. Ferdinando de' Medici, Grand Prince of Tuscany purchased it in 1698 and it has been on display at the Uffizi since 1948.. 
Continuum. Author Name: Charles O. Perry. . . Continuum is a public artwork by American sculptor Charles O. Perry located in front of the National Air and Space Museum in Washington, DC, United States.. Continuum is a public artwork by American sculptor Charles O. Perry located in front of the National Air and Space Museum in Washington, DC, United States.. 
Nature morte. Author Name: Jean Metzinger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Nature morte (Still Life), or Compotier et cruche décorée de cerfs, is a Cubist painting by the French artist Jean Metzinger. It was exhibited at Exposició d'Art Cubista, Galeries Dalmau, Barcelona, 20 April – 10 May 1912 (no. 44). During this show—the first exhibition of Cubism in Spain—Metzinger's painting became one of the preferred targets of the press. It was exhibited again 1 – 15 April 1917 at Nya Konstgalleriet (The New Art Gallery) founded by the Italian Futurist Arturo Ciacelli in Stockholm (reproduced in the catalogue). Nya Konstgalleriet was one of the three main galleries in Sweden responsible for promoting national and international modernism between 1915 and 1925.. Nature morte (Still Life), or Compotier et cruche décorée de cerfs, is a Cubist painting by the French artist Jean Metzinger. It was exhibited at Exposició d'Art Cubista, Galeries Dalmau, Barcelona, 20 April – 10 May 1912 (no. 44). During this show—the first exhibition of Cubism in Spain—Metzinger's painting became one of the preferred targets of the press. It was exhibited again 1 – 15 April 1917 at Nya Konstgalleriet (The New Art Gallery) founded by the Italian Futurist Arturo Ciacelli in Stockholm (reproduced in the catalogue). Nya Konstgalleriet was one of the three main galleries in Sweden responsible for promoting national and international modernism between 1915 and 1925. The painting would eventually be exhibited at Galerie Philippe Reichenbach, Houston, where it was acquired in 1960. In 2008 Nature morte (titled Compotier et cruche décorée de cerfs) was auctioned at Sotheby's in New York.. 
San Marco Altarpiece. Author Name: Blessed John of Fiesole, O.P.. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The San Marco Altarpiece (also known as Madonna and Saints) is a painting by the Italian early Renaissance painter Fra Angelico, housed in the San Marco Museum of Florence, Italy. It was commissioned by Cosimo de' Medici the Elder, and was completed sometime between 1438 and 1443. In addition to the main panel depicting the enthroned Virgin and Child surrounded by Angels and Saints, there were 9 predella panels accompanying it, narrating the legend of the patron saints, Saints Cosmas and Damian. Only the main panel and two predella panels actually remain in the Convent of San Marco, Florence, Italy, today. The San Marco Altarpiece is known as one of the best early Renaissance paintings for its employment of metaphor and perspective, Trompe l'oeil, and the intertwining of Dominican religiou. The San Marco Altarpiece (also known as Madonna and Saints) is a painting by the Italian early Renaissance painter Fra Angelico, housed in the San Marco Museum of Florence, Italy. It was commissioned by Cosimo de' Medici the Elder, and was completed sometime between 1438 and 1443. In addition to the main panel depicting the enthroned Virgin and Child surrounded by Angels and Saints, there were 9 predella panels accompanying it, narrating the legend of the patron saints, Saints Cosmas and Damian. Only the main panel and two predella panels actually remain in the Convent of San Marco, Florence, Italy, today. The San Marco Altarpiece is known as one of the best early Renaissance paintings for its employment of metaphor and perspective, Trompe l'oeil, and the intertwining of Dominican religious themes and symbols with contemporary, political messages.. 
Madonna of the Magnificat. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Madonna of the Magnificat, Italian: Madonna del Magnificat, is a painting of circular or tondo form by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli. It is now in the galleries of the Uffizi, in Florence.The work portrays the Virgin Mary crowned by two angels. She is writing the opening of the Magnificat on the right-hand page of a book; on the left page is part of the Benedictus. In her left hand she holds a pomegranate.. The Madonna of the Magnificat, Italian: Madonna del Magnificat, is a painting of circular or tondo form by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli. It is now in the galleries of the Uffizi, in Florence. The work portrays the Virgin Mary crowned by two angels. She is writing the opening of the Magnificat on the right-hand page of a book; on the left page is part of the Benedictus. In her left hand she holds a pomegranate.. 
Saint George and the Dragon. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Saint George and the Dragon is a painting by Peter Paul Rubens (c. 1605-07), based upon the motif with the same name. It is housed in the Museo del Prado of Madrid.It was painted in Genoa (Saint George is the patron of this city) while Rubens was to Italy to complete his artistic training. The princess' presence on the left is included to represent the Church.. Saint George and the Dragon is a painting by Peter Paul Rubens (c. 1605-07), based upon the motif with the same name. It is housed in the Museo del Prado of Madrid. It was painted in Genoa (Saint George is the patron of this city) while Rubens was to Italy to complete his artistic training. The princess' presence on the left is included to represent the Church.. 
Dynamism of a Cyclist. Author Name: Umberto Boccioni. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Futurism. . Dynamism of a Cyclist (Dinamismo di un Ciclista) is a 1913 painting by Italian Futurist artist Umberto Boccioni (1882–1916) that demonstrates the Futurist preoccupation with speed, modern methods of transport, and the depiction of the dynamic sensation of movement.. Dynamism of a Cyclist (Dinamismo di un Ciclista) is a 1913 painting by Italian Futurist artist Umberto Boccioni (1882–1916) that demonstrates the Futurist preoccupation with speed, modern methods of transport, and the depiction of the dynamic sensation of movement.. 
Bonaparte at the Pont d'Arcole. Author Name: Antoine-Jean Gros. . . Bonaparte at the Pont d’Arcole (French: Bonaparte au Pont d’Arcole) is a 1796 painting by Antoine-Jean Gros, showing an episode during the battle of the pont d'Arcole, with general Bonaparte leading his troops to storm the bridge.. Bonaparte at the Pont d’Arcole (French: Bonaparte au Pont d’Arcole) is a 1796 painting by Antoine-Jean Gros, showing an episode during the battle of the pont d'Arcole, with general Bonaparte leading his troops to storm the bridge.. 
Napoleon Crossing the Alps. Author Name: Jacques-Louis David. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . Napoleon Crossing the Alps (also known as Napoleon at the Saint-Bernard Pass or Bonaparte Crossing the Alps) is the title given to the five versions of an oil on canvas equestrian portrait of Napoleon Bonaparte painted by the French artist Jacques-Louis David between 1801 and 1805. Initially commissioned by the King of Spain, the composition shows a strongly idealized view of the real crossing that Napoleon and his army made across the Alps through the Great St. Bernard Pass in May 1800.. Napoleon Crossing the Alps (also known as Napoleon at the Saint-Bernard Pass or Bonaparte Crossing the Alps) is the title given to the five versions of an oil on canvas equestrian portrait of Napoleon Bonaparte painted by the French artist Jacques-Louis David between 1801 and 1805. Initially commissioned by the King of Spain, the composition shows a strongly idealized view of the real crossing that Napoleon and his army made across the Alps through the Great St. Bernard Pass in May 1800.. 
The Caress of a Bird. Author Name: Joan Miró. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . The Caress of a Bird (correctly La Caresse d'un oiseau) is a 1967 sculpture by Joan Miró made at his studio in Palma de Mallorca. It is part of the permanent collection of the Miró Foundation in Barcelona.. The Caress of a Bird (correctly La Caresse d'un oiseau) is a 1967 sculpture by Joan Miró made at his studio in Palma de Mallorca. It is part of the permanent collection of the Miró Foundation in Barcelona.. 
Giant Magnolias on a Blue Velvet Cloth. Author Name: Martin Johnson Heade. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Hudson_River_School. . Giant Magnolias on a Blue Velvet Cloth (1890) is an oil on canvas still-life by Martin Johnson Heade acquired by the National Gallery of Art in 1982. Heade made significant contributions to floral still-life painting during the course of his career, the NGA points out, with Giant Magnolias being one of the finest. Heade married in 1883 and settled in St. Augustine, Florida after a lackluster career as an itinerant artist. He was patronized by Floridian Henry Morrison Flagler, an oil and railroad magnate, who regularly purchased his works. The NGA believes this personal and professional stability stimulated the production of the still-life paintings of Heade's last years.. Giant Magnolias on a Blue Velvet Cloth (1890) is an oil on canvas still-life by Martin Johnson Heade acquired by the National Gallery of Art in 1982. Heade made significant contributions to floral still-life painting during the course of his career, the NGA points out, with Giant Magnolias being one of the finest. Heade married in 1883 and settled in St. Augustine, Florida after a lackluster career as an itinerant artist. He was patronized by Floridian Henry Morrison Flagler, an oil and railroad magnate, who regularly purchased his works. The NGA believes this personal and professional stability stimulated the production of the still-life paintings of Heade's last years. The NGA writes, "Certainly works such as Giant Magnolias on a Blue Velvet Cloth, with their striking contrasts of brilliantly lit flowers and leaves set against a dark background, are among the most original still lifes of the nineteenth century. They are also for many observers strongly sensual, their lush colors, full, curving contours, overall sense of opulence, and implied perfumed scent of the flowers suggestive, perhaps, of female nudes languidly reclining on luxurious couches.". 
Battaglia delle Amazzoni. Author Name: Anthony van Dyck. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Battle of the Amazons or Amazonomachia is an oil on wood painting produced around 1615. It shows an amazonomachy. It is usually attributed to Rubens, showing his huge admiration for Leonardo da Vinci and his The Battle of Anghiari, though the biographer Giovanni Pietro Bellori has attributed it to Anthony van Dyck. It is now in the Alte Pinakothek in Munich.. The Battle of the Amazons or Amazonomachia is an oil on wood painting produced around 1615. It shows an amazonomachy. It is usually attributed to Rubens, showing his huge admiration for Leonardo da Vinci and his The Battle of Anghiari, though the biographer Giovanni Pietro Bellori has attributed it to Anthony van Dyck. It is now in the Alte Pinakothek in Munich.. 
The Garden of Death. Author Name: Hugo Simberg. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Symbolism_(arts). . The Garden of Death (Finnish: Kuoleman puutarha) (1896) is a painting by Finnish symbolist painter Hugo Simberg. Like many of Simberg's paintings, it depicts a gloomy, otherworldly scene. The central figures are reminiscent of the classic black-clad Grim Reaper, but paradoxically are tending to gardens; traditionally symbols of birth or renewal.The painting was a favourite subject of Simberg's and he made several versions using different techniques, including larger fresco version of the painting in the Tampere Cathedral, which also contains other works by Simberg.. The Garden of Death (Finnish: Kuoleman puutarha) (1896) is a painting by Finnish symbolist painter Hugo Simberg. Like many of Simberg's paintings, it depicts a gloomy, otherworldly scene. The central figures are reminiscent of the classic black-clad Grim Reaper, but paradoxically are tending to gardens; traditionally symbols of birth or renewal. The Garden of Death is one of the few paintings whose symbolism Simberg explained; typically he preferred to let viewers come to their own conclusions. In a note on one sketch he described the garden as "the place where the dead end up before going to Heaven". Simberg's juxtaposition of the traditionally frightening imagery of death with the tenderness and humor of his portrayal invite the viewer to consider mortality in a new light. The painting was a favourite subject of Simberg's and he made several versions using different techniques, including larger fresco version of the painting in the Tampere Cathedral, which also contains other works by Simberg.. 
Love Locked Out. Author Name: Anna Lea Merritt. . . Love Locked Out is an oil painting by Anna Lea Merritt first exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1890 and which became the first painting by a woman artist acquired for the British national collection through the Chantrey Bequest.As a notable work by an American painter, Love Locked Out was included in the 1905 book Women Painters of the World.The title also became the title for the compilation of Anna Lea Merritt's memoires, published by Galina Gorokhoff in 1982.. Love Locked Out is an oil painting by Anna Lea Merritt first exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1890 and which became the first painting by a woman artist acquired for the British national collection through the Chantrey Bequest. The painting was well received when it was shown, though her first painting of a nude model Eve Overcome with Remorse had met with unfavourable reviews after winning a medal at the Royal Academy in 1885. This painting, which was created as a memorial to her husband, was received favourably, though it again featured a nude model and this time the model was male, a controversial subject for women artists at that time. She escaped censure by choosing a child, rather than an adult, such as her Eve had been. As a notable work by an American painter, Love Locked Out was included in the 1905 book Women Painters of the World. The title also became the title for the compilation of Anna Lea Merritt's memoires, published by Galina Gorokhoff in 1982.. 
Flying Dragon. Author Name: Alexander "Sandy" Calder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstraction_(art). . Flying Dragon is a sculpture by Alexander Calder in the Art Institute of Chicago North Stanley McCormick Memorial Court (aka North Garden) north of the Art Institute of Chicago Building in the Loop community area of Chicago, Illinois. It is a painted steel plate work of art created in 1975 measuring 365 (H) x 579 (L) x 335 (W) cm (120 x 228 x 132 in.). It is painted in the signature "Calder Red" (which you also see at the nearby Flamingo) and is intended to represent a dragonfly in flight.. Flying Dragon is a sculpture by Alexander Calder in the Art Institute of Chicago North Stanley McCormick Memorial Court (aka North Garden) north of the Art Institute of Chicago Building in the Loop community area of Chicago, Illinois. It is a painted steel plate work of art created in 1975 measuring 365 (H) x 579 (L) x 335 (W) cm (120 x 228 x 132 in.). It is painted in the signature "Calder Red" (which you also see at the nearby Flamingo) and is intended to represent a dragonfly in flight.. 
San Luca Altarpiece. Author Name: Andrea Mantegna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The San Lucas Altarpiece, also known as the San Lucas Polyptych, is a polyptych panel painting by Northern Italian Renaissance painter Andrea Mantegna. The altarpiece is a polyptych panel painting featuring 12 figures each in his or her own arch. The seven figures in the top row flank the central figure of Jesus Christ. The five beneath flank Saint Luke.. The San Lucas Altarpiece, also known as the San Lucas Polyptych, is a polyptych panel painting by Northern Italian Renaissance painter Andrea Mantegna. The altarpiece is a polyptych panel painting featuring 12 figures each in his or her own arch. The seven figures in the top row flank the central figure of Jesus Christ. The five beneath flank Saint Luke.. 
Aerodynamic Forms in Space. Author Name: Rodney Graham. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Vancouver_School. . Aerodynamic Forms in Space is a 2010 sculpture by Rodney Graham, located at the Georgia Street entrance to Stanley Park in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. It looks like a mangled glider.. Aerodynamic Forms in Space is a 2010 sculpture by Rodney Graham, located at the Georgia Street entrance to Stanley Park in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. It looks like a mangled glider.. 
Florinda. Author Name: Franz  Xaver Winterhalter. . . Florinda (Russian: Флоринда) is an oil on canvas painting by a German painter and lithographer Franz Xaver Winterhalter. It was completed in 1853 and is based on Neoclassicism style by use of literary painting genre. The dimensions of the painting is 178.4 by 245.7 centimeters and is housed at Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York City.. Florinda (Russian: Флоринда) is an oil on canvas painting by a German painter and lithographer Franz Xaver Winterhalter. It was completed in 1853 and is based on Neoclassicism style by use of literary painting genre. The dimensions of the painting is 178.4 by 245.7 centimeters and is housed at Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York City.. 
Sir Nicholas Serota Makes. Author Name: Charles Thomson. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Stuckism. . Sir Nicholas Serota Makes an Acquisitions Decision is one of the best known paintings to come out of the Stuckism art movement, and a likely "signature piece" for the movement, standing for its opposition to conceptual art. It was painted by the Stuckism co-founder Charles Thomson in 2000, and has been exhibited in a number of shows since, as well as being featured on placards during Stuckist demonstrations against the Turner Prize.. Sir Nicholas Serota Makes an Acquisitions Decision is one of the best known paintings to come out of the Stuckism art movement, and a likely "signature piece" for the movement, standing for its opposition to conceptual art. It was painted by the Stuckism co-founder Charles Thomson in 2000, and has been exhibited in a number of shows since, as well as being featured on placards during Stuckist demonstrations against the Turner Prize. It depicts Sir Nicholas Serota, Director of the Tate Gallery, and the usual chairman of the Turner Prize jury. "Emin" satirises Young British Artist Tracey Emin's installation My Bed, consisting of her bed and objects, including knickers, which she exhibited in 1999 as a Turner Prize nominee.. 
A Road at Saint-Remy with Female Figure. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Vincent van Gogh painted A Road at Saint-Remy with Female Figure while staying in Saint-Remy in 1889. The distinctive painting style of Van Gogh's later works is very apparent in this painting as the road, vegetation and sky is all rendered with his thick characteristic brush strokes.. Vincent van Gogh painted A Road at Saint-Remy with Female Figure while staying in Saint-Remy in 1889. The distinctive painting style of Van Gogh's later works is very apparent in this painting as the road, vegetation and sky is all rendered with his thick characteristic brush strokes. The painting depicts a woman walking towards a house at the end of a small road at Saint-Remy in France. The sides of the road is covered in green and yellow vegetation as fall has set in, and the fall also seems to have brought its winds. There is some contrast between the windy yellow and green vegetation which dominates the female figure, and the blue open sky overhead.. 
Houses at Auvers. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Houses at Auvers is an oil painting by Vincent van Gogh, painted towards the end of May or beginning of June 1890, shortly after he had moved to Auvers-sur-Oise, a small town northwest of Paris, France.His move was prompted by his dissatisfaction with the boredom and monotony of asylum life at Saint-Rémy, as well as by his emergence as an artist of some renown following  Albert Aurier's celebrated January 1890 Mercure de France review of his work.. Houses at Auvers is an oil painting by Vincent van Gogh, painted towards the end of May or beginning of June 1890, shortly after he had moved to Auvers-sur-Oise, a small town northwest of Paris, France. His move was prompted by his dissatisfaction with the boredom and monotony of asylum life at Saint-Rémy, as well as by his emergence as an artist of some renown following Albert Aurier's celebrated January 1890 Mercure de France review of his work. In his final two months at Saint-Rémy van Gogh painted from memory a number of canvases he called "reminisces of the North", harking back to his Dutch roots. The influence of this return to the North continued at Auvers, notably in F789 The Church at Auvers. He did not, however, repeat his studies of peasant life of the sort he had made in his Nuenen period. His paintings of dwellings at Auvers encompassed a range of social domains.. 
Femme à l'Éventail. Author Name: Jean Metzinger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Femme à l'Éventail (also known as L'Éventail vert, Woman with a Fan, and The Lady) is an oil painting created in 1912 by the French artist and theorist Jean Metzinger (1883–1956). The painting was exhibited at the Salon d'Automne, 1912, Paris (hung in the decorative arts section inside the Salon Bourgeois of La Maison Cubiste, the Cubist House), and De Moderne Kunstkring, 1912, Amsterdam (L'éventail vert, no. 153). It was also exhibited at the Musée Rath, Geneva, Exposition de cubistes français et d'un groupe d'artistes indépendants, 3–15 June 1913 (L'éventail vert, no. 22). A 1912 photograph of Femme à l'Éventail hanging on a wall inside the Salon Bourgeois was published in The Sun (New York, N.Y.), 10 November 1912. The same photograph was reproduced in The Literary Digest, 30 November 1. Femme à l'Éventail (also known as L'Éventail vert, Woman with a Fan, and The Lady) is an oil painting created in 1912 by the French artist and theorist Jean Metzinger (1883–1956). The painting was exhibited at the Salon d'Automne, 1912, Paris (hung in the decorative arts section inside the Salon Bourgeois of La Maison Cubiste, the Cubist House), and De Moderne Kunstkring, 1912, Amsterdam (L'éventail vert, no. 153). It was also exhibited at the Musée Rath, Geneva, Exposition de cubistes français et d'un groupe d'artistes indépendants, 3–15 June 1913 (L'éventail vert, no. 22). A 1912 photograph of Femme à l'Éventail hanging on a wall inside the Salon Bourgeois was published in The Sun (New York, N.Y.), 10 November 1912. The same photograph was reproduced in The Literary Digest, 30 November 1912. Metzinger's Cubist contribution to the 1912 Salon d'Automne created a controversy in the Municipal Council of Paris, leading to a debate in the Chambre des Députés about the use of public funds to provide the venue for such 'barbaric' art. The Cubists were defended by the Socialist politician, Marcel Sembat. This painting was realized as Jean Metzinger and Albert Gleizes, in preparation for the Salon de la Section d'Or, published a major defence of Cubism, resulting in the first theoretical essay on the new movement, Du «Cubisme». A photograph of Femme à l'Éventail appears among the Léonce Rosenberg archives in Paris, but there is no indication of when he acquired the painting. A Rosenberg label on the reverse bears the information "No.25112 J.Metzinger, 1913." By 1918 Rosenberg was buying Metzinger's paintings and may have acquired the picture around this time or soon afterwards. In 1937 Femme à l'Éventail was exhibited at Musée du Petit Palais, Les Maitres de l'art indépendant, 1895-1937, no. 12 (dated 1912). Mlle. Gamier des Garets probably acquired the painting after the 1937 exhibition. By 1938 Solomon R. Guggenheim had purchased the painting. It was gifted to the museum (gift 38.531) by Guggenheim in 1938 (the year after the formation of the foundation). Metzinger's Femme à l'Éventail forms part of the Founding Collection of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, New York. Femme à l'Éventail was showcased in an exhibition entitled The Great Upheaval: Masterpieces from the Guggenheim Collection, 1910-1918, from 30 November 2013 to 1 June 2014.. 
Cellini Salt Cellar. Author Name: Benvenuto Cellini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . The Cellini Salt Cellar (in Vienna called the Saliera, Italian for salt cellar) is a part-enamelled gold table sculpture by Benvenuto Cellini. It was completed in 1543 for Francis I of France, from models that had been prepared many years earlier for Cardinal Ippolito d'Este. The Cellini Salt Cellar depicts a male figure representing the sea and a female figure that represents the earth. A small vessel meant to hold salt is placed next to the male figure. A temple-shaped box for pepper is placed next to the female figure.. The Cellini Salt Cellar (in Vienna called the Saliera, Italian for salt cellar) is a part-enamelled gold table sculpture by Benvenuto Cellini. It was completed in 1543 for Francis I of France, from models that had been prepared many years earlier for Cardinal Ippolito d'Este. The Cellini Salt Cellar depicts a male figure representing the sea and a female figure that represents the earth. A small vessel meant to hold salt is placed next to the male figure. A temple-shaped box for pepper is placed next to the female figure. It came into the possession of the Habsburgs as a gift by Charles IX of France to Archduke Ferdinand II of Tyrol, who had acted as a proxy for Charles in his wedding to Elisabeth of Austria. It was originally part of the Habsburg art collection at Castle Ambras, but was transferred to the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna during the 19th century. The Saliera is the only remaining work of precious metal which can be reliably attributed to Cellini. It was created in the Mannerist style of the late Renaissance and allegorically portrays Terra e Mare. In Cellini's description, the sea was represented by a male figure reclining beside a ship for holding the salt; the earth he "fashioned like a woman" and placed a temple near her to serve as a receptacle for pepper. The salt cellar is made of ivory, rolled gold, and vitreous enamel. The gold is not cast in a mould but hammered by hand into its delicate shape. It stands about 26 cm tall. The base is about 33.5 cm wide and features bearings to roll it around in order to appreciate it better.[citation needed] Two years after finishing this work, Cellini returned to Florence, to the patronage of Cosimo I de' Medici, Grand Duke of Tuscany. The sculpture is insured for an estimated $60 million (approx. $68.3 million in CPI-adjusted 2012 United States dollars) by Uniqa Versicherungen, an Austrian insurance company.[citation needed]. 
Alma Mater. Author Name: Daniel Chester French. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/American_Renaissance. . Alma Mater is a sculpture of the goddess Athena by Daniel Chester French which is located on the steps leading to the Low Memorial Library on the Morningside Heights campus of Columbia University in Manhattan, New York City. Sculpted in 1903 and installed in 1904, it was donated in memory of alumnus Robert Goelet of the Class of 1860 by his wife, Harriette W. Goelet. Alma Mater The statue has become a symbol of the university.. Alma Mater is a sculpture of the goddess Athena by Daniel Chester French which is located on the steps leading to the Low Memorial Library on the Morningside Heights campus of Columbia University in Manhattan, New York City. Sculpted in 1903 and installed in 1904, it was donated in memory of alumnus Robert Goelet of the Class of 1860 by his wife, Harriette W. Goelet. Alma Mater The statue has become a symbol of the university. An owl is hidden in the folds of Alma Mater's cloak near her left leg, a symbol of knowledge and learning, and college superstition has it that the first member of the incoming class to find the owl will become class valedictorian. The legend at another time was that any Columbia student who found the owl on his first try would marry a girl from Barnard. In 1962 the statue was gilded, but the gilding was removed after protests. In the 1960s and 70s, the radical group the Weather Underground planned to blow up the statue, but these plans were shelved after the group managed to blow much of itself up inside a Greenwich Village row house instead.. 
Crouching Woman. Author Name: Auguste Rodin. . . Crouching Woman is a bronze sculpture by Auguste Rodin.Originally modeled in 1880-1882, and enlarged in 1907-1911, it was cast in 1962.It is in the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.. Crouching Woman is a bronze sculpture by Auguste Rodin. Originally modeled in 1880-1882, and enlarged in 1907-1911, it was cast in 1962. It is in the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.. 
Recanati Annunciation. Author Name: Lorenzo Lotto. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Recanati Annunciation (Italian: Annunciazione di Recanati) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Lorenzo Lotto, executed around 1534 and housed in the Civic Museum of Villa Colloredo Mels, Recanati, Italy.. The Recanati Annunciation (Italian: Annunciazione di Recanati) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Lorenzo Lotto, executed around 1534 and housed in the Civic Museum of Villa Colloredo Mels, Recanati, Italy.. 
The Red Ceiling. Author Name: William Eggleston. . . The Red Ceiling is the title of a photograph by William Eggleston. It is also known as Greenwood, Mississippi, 1973 after the location and year it was taken.A dye transfer print measuring 13 7⁄8 by 21 11⁄16 inches (35.2 by 55.1 cm), Eggleston considers it among his most challenging and powerful works, "so powerful that, in fact, I've never seen it reproduced on the page to my satisfaction".A copy of the photograph is held by the J. Paul Getty Museum, but is currently not on view at the Getty Center. Another copy is held by the Museum of Modern Art.. The Red Ceiling is the title of a photograph by William Eggleston. It is also known as Greenwood, Mississippi, 1973 after the location and year it was taken. A dye transfer print measuring 13 7⁄8 by 21 11⁄16 inches (35.2 by 55.1 cm), Eggleston considers it among his most challenging and powerful works, "so powerful that, in fact, I've never seen it reproduced on the page to my satisfaction". A copy of the photograph is held by the J. Paul Getty Museum, but is currently not on view at the Getty Center. Another copy is held by the Museum of Modern Art. It has been described as Eggleston's "most famous photograph," with "some indefinable sense of menace". It is widely recognised as the album cover for the record Radio City by the Memphis band Big Star.. 
Little Prince. Author Name: Averbuch, Ilan. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_art. . Little Prince, also known as The Little Prince, is an outdoor 1995 copper and steel sculpture by artist Ilan Averbuch, located in the Rose Quarter of Portland, Oregon. It is part of the City of Portland and Multnomah County Public Art Collection courtesy of the Regional Arts & Culture Council.. Little Prince, also known as The Little Prince, is an outdoor 1995 copper and steel sculpture by artist Ilan Averbuch, located in the Rose Quarter of Portland, Oregon. It is part of the City of Portland and Multnomah County Public Art Collection courtesy of the Regional Arts & Culture Council.. 
Credulity, Superstition, and Fanaticism. Author Name: William  Hogarth. . . Credulity, Superstition and Fanaticism is a satirical print by the English artist William Hogarth. It ridicules secular and religious credulity, and lampoons the exaggerated religious "enthusiasm" (excessive emotion, not keenness) of the Methodist movement. The print was originally engraved in 1761, with the title Enthusiasm Delineated, but never published. The original print may have been a response to three essays published by Joshua Reynolds in The Idler in 1759, praising the sublime work of Italian Counter-Reformation artists. Hogarth reworked the engraving before publishing it on 15 March 1762 as Credulity, Superstition and Fanaticism: A Medley. It echoes his earlier print, The Sleeping Congregation of 1736, in which an Anglican clergyman's boring sermon puts his congregation to sleep. Credulity, Superstition and Fanaticism is a satirical print by the English artist William Hogarth. It ridicules secular and religious credulity, and lampoons the exaggerated religious "enthusiasm" (excessive emotion, not keenness) of the Methodist movement. The print was originally engraved in 1761, with the title Enthusiasm Delineated, but never published. The original print may have been a response to three essays published by Joshua Reynolds in The Idler in 1759, praising the sublime work of Italian Counter-Reformation artists. Hogarth reworked the engraving before publishing it on 15 March 1762 as Credulity, Superstition and Fanaticism: A Medley. It echoes his earlier print, The Sleeping Congregation of 1736, in which an Anglican clergyman's boring sermon puts his congregation to sleep. The print depicts a preacher – possibly George Whitefield – speaking to a church congregation from the top of a high pulpit. His text is opened at a page which reads "I speak as a fool", and he is wearing a Harlequin jacket under his clerical gown. He is holding a puppet of a devil with a gridiron in his left hand and a puppet of a witch suckling an incubus in his right hand. His wig is falling off to reveal a Jesuit's tonsure underneath. To the right, the "scale of vociferation" measures his oratory, rising from "natural tone" to "bull roar". (In Enthusiasm Delineated, the puppet of the witch was an abstract figure representing God, and the sides of the pulpit are adorned with additional pairs of religious puppets which are omitted in its final version.) The print includes visual references to more than a dozen reputed instances of witchcraft or possession in England. The three figures decorating the pulpit each hold a candle, and allude to the ghost seen by Sir George Villiers (whose name appears in a book held by the figure on the right), the ghost of the stabbed Julius Caesar appearing before Brutus, and the ghost of Mrs Veale (immortalised by Daniel Defoe in A True Relation of the Apparition of One Mrs. Veal the Next Day after her Death to One Mrs. Bargrave at Canterbury 8 September 1705). In a box pew at the foot of the pulpit, another clergyman pushes an icon of the Cock Lane ghost down the shirt of a young lady in the throes of religious ecstasy. (In Enthusiasm Delineated, this was an aristocratic rake fondling the breast of a woman.) The "Poors Box" has grown cobwebs, showing Hogarth's view that the Methodists were disregarding good works by emphasising faith so strongly. To the right, standing on copies of John Westley's Sermons, and Glanvill's Book of Witches, a religious thermometer measures the emotional states of a brain (or possibly a heart) from a central reading of lukewarm, either upwards through love heat, to lust, ecstasy, madness and raving, or downwards through low spirits to sorrow, agony, settled grief to despair, then madness and suicide. On top of the thermometer is an image of the Cock Lane ghost, and the Drummer of Tedworth. The congregation are in various states of ecstasy, grief and horror. Another minister sings, accompanied by weeping cherubs. A shoe-black vomits nails and pins – possible a reference to the boy of Bilson, who ate metal items. A Jew with a knife sacrifices an insect on the altar. A turbaned Turk looks in at the window, quietly smoking a pipe, and thanks the prophet that he is a Muslim. He represents the "rational, enlightened part of mankind looking down on Christian fanatics with surprise and disgust." Above the congregation is suspended a "A New and Correct Globe of Hell by Romaine" (possibly referring to William Romaine), with parts labelled "Molten Lead Lake", "Pitch & Tar Rivers", "Horrid Zone", "The Brimstone Ocean", and "Eternal Damnation Gulf". One man below the globe is terrified when a preacher next to him, possibly John Wesley, points it out to him. Beneath the engraving Hogarth quotes 1 John 4:1, "Believe not every Spirit, but try the Spirits whether they are of God: because many false Prophets are gone out into the World." Horace Walpole stated that this print "surpassed all his other performances" and "would alone immortalize his unequalled talents.". 
Portrait of the Count-Duke of Olivares. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Portrait of the Count-Duke of Olivares is a 1624 portrait by Diego Velázquez (Seville, June 6, 1599 - Madrid, August 6 1660), the most celebrated painter of the Spanish Golden Age. It is housed in the São Paulo Museum of Art in São Paulo, Brazil.. The Portrait of the Count-Duke of Olivares is a 1624 portrait by Diego Velázquez (Seville, June 6, 1599 - Madrid, August 6 1660), the most celebrated painter of the Spanish Golden Age. It is housed in the São Paulo Museum of Art in São Paulo, Brazil.. 
The History of Constantine. Author Name: Pietro da Cortona. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The History of Constantine is a series of tapestries designed by Flemish artist Peter Paul Rubens and Italian artist Pietro da Cortona depicting the life of Constantine I, the first Christian emperor of Ancient Rome. In 1622, Rubens painted the first twelve oil sketches that were used as guides, and the tapestries themselves were woven in the workshop of Marc Comans and François de la Planche in the Faubourg Saint-Marcel in Paris by 1625, transforming each small sketch (perhaps two feet per side) into a sumptuous creation of wool, silk, and gold and silver threads that could easily fill a wall. An additional five designs were painted by Cortona in 1630 and woven in the atelier of Cardinal Francesco Barberini in Rome over the next decade.. The History of Constantine is a series of tapestries designed by Flemish artist Peter Paul Rubens and Italian artist Pietro da Cortona depicting the life of Constantine I, the first Christian emperor of Ancient Rome. In 1622, Rubens painted the first twelve oil sketches that were used as guides, and the tapestries themselves were woven in the workshop of Marc Comans and François de la Planche in the Faubourg Saint-Marcel in Paris by 1625, transforming each small sketch (perhaps two feet per side) into a sumptuous creation of wool, silk, and gold and silver threads that could easily fill a wall. An additional five designs were painted by Cortona in 1630 and woven in the atelier of Cardinal Francesco Barberini in Rome over the next decade.. 
La barca de Aqueronte. Author Name: Félix Resurrección Hidalgo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . La barca de Aqueronte, translated in English as The Boat of Charon or Charon’s Boat, is an 1887 oil on canvas and allegorical painting by award-winning Filipino painter Félix Resurrección Hidalgo. The work was a gold medalist during the Exposicion General de las Filipinas (International Philippine Exposition) in Madrid. In 1889, an international jury made the painting a silver medalist during the Paris Exposition, a distinct recognition that no other Filipino painter had achieved at the major art arena in Paris. The painting also won other awards such as a diploma of honor from the 1891 Exposicion General de Bellas Artes in Barcelona, a gold medal prize at the 1893 Madrid Exposicion Internacional de Bellas Artes during the 400th Anniversary of the Discovery of America. The Government of Sp. La barca de Aqueronte, translated in English as The Boat of Charon or Charon’s Boat, is an 1887 oil on canvas and allegorical painting by award-winning Filipino painter Félix Resurrección Hidalgo. The work was a gold medalist during the Exposicion General de las Filipinas (International Philippine Exposition) in Madrid. In 1889, an international jury made the painting a silver medalist during the Paris Exposition, a distinct recognition that no other Filipino painter had achieved at the major art arena in Paris. The painting also won other awards such as a diploma of honor from the 1891 Exposicion General de Bellas Artes in Barcelona, a gold medal prize at the 1893 Madrid Exposicion Internacional de Bellas Artes during the 400th Anniversary of the Discovery of America. The Government of Spain bought the work of art through a royal decree for the amount of 7,500 pesetas on March 7, 1893. After displaying the artwork at the Museo-Biblioteca de Ultramar (Ultramar Library Museum) and at the Museo de Arte Moderno., La barca de Aqueronte is currently placed at Madrid’s Museo Nacional de Pintura (National Museum of Paintings), after the Philippines became a United States territory in 1898. A smaller study of the same painting is at the Hidalgo Hall of the Lopez Museum in the Philippines. La barca de Aqueronte became Hidalgo's most awarded work of art. By winning in international exhibitions through La barca de Aqueronte and his other paintings Las Virgenes Cristianas Expuestas al Populacho and Adios del Sol during the last quarter of the nineteenth century, Hidalgo's “mark of having arrived as a painter” and his place in Philippine Art, history of Philippine Art, and the “popular mind” became secured. Hidalgo was also a recipient of the 1889 Chevalier de la Légion d'honneur.. 
Vilabertran. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Vilabertran (1913) is a painting by the Spanish surrealist artist Salvador Dalí. This is among Dalí's earliest works, having been painted when he was about nine years old. It is a landscape painting from Vilabertran as Dalí often drew in his early period.. Vilabertran (1913) is a painting by the Spanish surrealist artist Salvador Dalí. This is among Dalí's earliest works, having been painted when he was about nine years old. It is a landscape painting from Vilabertran as Dalí often drew in his early period.. 
The Partisans. Author Name: Pitynski, Andrzej. . . The Partisans is a 1979 aluminum sculpture by the Polish-American sculptor Andrzej Pitynski that has been exhibited in Boston, Massachusetts, since 1983. The sculpture depicts Polish anti-communist "cursed soldiers". It is dedicated to freedom fighters worldwide.. The Partisans is a 1979 aluminum sculpture by the Polish-American sculptor Andrzej Pitynski that has been exhibited in Boston, Massachusetts, since 1983. The sculpture depicts Polish anti-communist "cursed soldiers". It is dedicated to freedom fighters worldwide.. 
The Young Sailor II. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . The Young Sailor II is a painting by Henri Matisse from 1906.. The Young Sailor II is a painting by Henri Matisse from 1906.. 
Bellerophon Taming Pegasus. Author Name: Jacques Lipchitz. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Bellerophon Taming Pegasus is an outdoor sculpture depicting Bellerophon and Pegasus by Jacques Lipchitz, located on the Columbia University campus in Manhattan, New York. Installed above the west entrance of Jerome Greene Hall on Revson Plaza, the 23-ton sculpture measures approximately 30 feet (9.1 m) by 28 feet (8.5 m), making it one of the largest in the city. It was commissioned in 1966 and was dedicated on November 28, 1977.. Bellerophon Taming Pegasus is an outdoor sculpture depicting Bellerophon and Pegasus by Jacques Lipchitz, located on the Columbia University campus in Manhattan, New York. Installed above the west entrance of Jerome Greene Hall on Revson Plaza, the 23-ton sculpture measures approximately 30 feet (9.1 m) by 28 feet (8.5 m), making it one of the largest in the city. It was commissioned in 1966 and was dedicated on November 28, 1977.. 
The Spirit of Detroit. Author Name: Marshall M. Fredericks. . . The Spirit of Detroit is a city monument with a large bronze statue created by Marshall Fredericks and located at the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center on Woodward Avenue in Detroit, Michigan, USA.It was commissioned in 1955 for a cost of $58,000 (equivalent to $512,345 today), and dedicated in 1958.In its left hand, the large seated figure holds a gilt bronze sphere emanating rays to symbolize God. The people in the figure's right hand are a family group. The 26-foot (7.9 m) sculpture was the largest cast bronze statue since the Renaissance when it was first installed.It was cast in Oslo, Norway.. The Spirit of Detroit is a city monument with a large bronze statue created by Marshall Fredericks and located at the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center on Woodward Avenue in Detroit, Michigan, USA. It was commissioned in 1955 for a cost of $58,000 (equivalent to $512,345 today), and dedicated in 1958.In its left hand, the large seated figure holds a gilt bronze sphere emanating rays to symbolize God. The people in the figure's right hand are a family group. The 26-foot (7.9 m) sculpture was the largest cast bronze statue since the Renaissance when it was first installed.It was cast in Oslo, Norway. The statue underwent a restoration in 2006, funded by foundations and other private donations. In 2013, art dealer and art historian Eric Ian Hornak Spoutz was quoted in the Detroit News stating that the value of the statue is in excess of $1,000,000.. 
Untitled. Author Name: Rosati, James. . . Untitled is a public art work by American abstract artist James Rosati located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture is an abstract form made of Corten steel; it is installed on the lawn.. Untitled is a public art work by American abstract artist James Rosati located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture is an abstract form made of Corten steel; it is installed on the lawn.. 
Saint Nicholas in Glory. Author Name: Lorenzo Lotto. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Saint Nicholas in Glory is an altarpiece painting by Italian Renaissance artist Lorenzo Lotto, executed in 1527-1529 and located in the church of Santa Maria dei Carmini, Venice.. Saint Nicholas in Glory is an altarpiece painting by Italian Renaissance artist Lorenzo Lotto, executed in 1527-1529 and located in the church of Santa Maria dei Carmini, Venice.. 
Landscape with Waterfall. Author Name: Jacob van Ruisdael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_Golden_Age_painting. . Landscape with Waterfall (Dutch Landschap met waterval, in de verte een kerk) (c. 1660s) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch landscape painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Amsterdam Museum, on loan to the Rijksmuseum.. Landscape with Waterfall (Dutch Landschap met waterval, in de verte een kerk) (c. 1660s) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch landscape painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Amsterdam Museum, on loan to the Rijksmuseum. This painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1911, who wrote; "198. A WATERFALL NEAR AN OAK WOOD. Sm. Suppl. 1. In the left foreground is a waterfall divided in the middle by a rock ; to the left is a tree-trunk lying half in the stream. In the right foreground is a rocky bank with a birch stem bent to the right. In the right middle distance is a great oak wood, traversed by a road on which stand a man and boy conversing with a woman who sits nursing a child. To the left of the road is the stream, through which two persons apparently men drive a flock of sheep. Beyond is a wooded slope. In the centre is a view over a cornfield with sheaves ; in the distance is a village with two wind-mills and a church. A fine evening, with rolling clouds and sunlight falling on the cornfield and wood. "This excellent picture, in addition to its being one of the largest works of the artist, is singularly grand and rich in its composition, combined with unusual clearness and brilliancy of colouring and the most masterly execution, justly entitling it to the appellation of a chef d'oeuvre" (Sm.). Signed in full on a stone on the right at foot ; canvas though the Amsterdam catalogue says it is on oak panel 56 inches by 76 1/2 inches. Exhibited at Amsterdam, 1845, No. 134. Bought by an ancestor of Sir Charles Blount, Bart., on the Continent about the year 1740 (Sm.). In the collection of Sir Charles Blount, Bart., who sold it to Sm. in 1836. Sold by Sm. to A. van der Hoop, Amsterdam, 1837 (for 1450). Bequeathed by A. van der Hoop to Amsterdam with his collection in 1854. In the Rijksmuseum, Amsterdam, Van der Hoop bequest, 1910 catalogue, No. 2075." This scene is very similar to other paintings Ruisdael made of waterfalls. As a warning of the forces of nature, these often included logs or broken tree stumps as silent witness to a more flooded scene than the one depicted. These must have sold well, as most of what remains today of Ruisdael's oeuvre are waterfall scenes. Inspired by the dramatic works of Allaert van Everdingen, Ruisdael also made more nordic versions (such as A Waterfall in a Rocky Landscape), which included pine trees and mountains.. 
Edge of the Trees. Author Name: Janet Laurence. . . Edge of the Trees is a collaborative installation artwork created by artist Janet Laurence and Fiona Foley. The artwork is a site-specific piece located at the forecourt of the Museum of Sydney, Sydney since its opening in 1995. The artwork is constructed with 29 vertical pillars made from different materials such as wood, steel, and sandstone collaborating with other organic materials and sound elements. This public art installation has won several awards as it evokes the cultural and physical history of the site.. Edge of the Trees is a collaborative installation artwork created by artist Janet Laurence and Fiona Foley. The artwork is a site-specific piece located at the forecourt of the Museum of Sydney, Sydney since its opening in 1995. The artwork is constructed with 29 vertical pillars made from different materials such as wood, steel, and sandstone collaborating with other organic materials and sound elements. This public art installation has won several awards as it evokes the cultural and physical history of the site.. 
Tree of Life. Author Name: White, Nancy Metz. . . Tree of Life is a public artwork by American artist Nancy Metz White, located at the north end of Mitchell Boulevard Park, a Milwaukee County Park in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. It is located near Miller Park. Unveiled in 2002, Tree of Life is constructed out of recycled steel from industry processes. It stands 2½ stories tall, and is brightly painted. White intended for the sculpture to become a place for Milwaukee locals to gather and forge new community ties.. Tree of Life is a public artwork by American artist Nancy Metz White, located at the north end of Mitchell Boulevard Park, a Milwaukee County Park in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. It is located near Miller Park. Unveiled in 2002, Tree of Life is constructed out of recycled steel from industry processes. It stands 2½ stories tall, and is brightly painted. White intended for the sculpture to become a place for Milwaukee locals to gather and forge new community ties.. 
Lemminkäinen's Mother. Author Name: Akseli Gallen-Kallela. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Lemminkäinen's Mother (Lemminkäisen äiti) is an 1897 Romantic nationalist painting by Finnish painter Akseli Gallen-Kallela. The painting illustrates a passage from the Kalevala, the Finnish national epic compiled by Elias Lönnrot in the 19th century.The painting illustrates a poem where hero Lemminkäinen has died and his mother has dredged the pieces of her son's lifeless body from the river of Tuonela and sewn them together again. She is shown with the body in pietà style, waiting for the bee, a messenger of the god Ukko, to bring her honey from the gods to bring her son to life again.. Lemminkäinen's Mother (Lemminkäisen äiti) is an 1897 Romantic nationalist painting by Finnish painter Akseli Gallen-Kallela. The painting illustrates a passage from the Kalevala, the Finnish national epic compiled by Elias Lönnrot in the 19th century. The painting illustrates a poem where hero Lemminkäinen has died and his mother has dredged the pieces of her son's lifeless body from the river of Tuonela and sewn them together again. She is shown with the body in pietà style, waiting for the bee, a messenger of the god Ukko, to bring her honey from the gods to bring her son to life again.. 
Cubi XII. Author Name: David Smith. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . Cubi XII is an abstract sculpture by  David Smith.Constructed of stainless steel, completed on April 7 1963, it was purchased from his estate by the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in 1968.It is a part of the Cubi series.He used the shiny finish to contrast with the landscape. The circular grind marks change in varying lighting conditions.. Cubi XII is an abstract sculpture by David Smith. Constructed of stainless steel, completed on April 7 1963, it was purchased from his estate by the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in 1968. It is a part of the Cubi series. He used the shiny finish to contrast with the landscape. The circular grind marks change in varying lighting conditions.. 
Ginevra de’ Benci. Author Name: Leonardo da Vinci. . . Ginevra de’ Benci is a portrait painting by Leonardo da Vinci of the 15th-century Florentine aristocrat Ginevra de’ Benci (born c. 1458). The oil-on-wood portrait was acquired by the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C., United States, in 1967. The sum of US$5 million—a record price at the time—came from the Ailsa Mellon Bruce Fund and was paid to the Princely House of Liechtenstein. It is the only painting by Leonardo on public view in the Americas.. Ginevra de’ Benci is a portrait painting by Leonardo da Vinci of the 15th-century Florentine aristocrat Ginevra de’ Benci (born c. 1458). The oil-on-wood portrait was acquired by the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C., United States, in 1967. The sum of US$5 million—a record price at the time—came from the Ailsa Mellon Bruce Fund and was paid to the Princely House of Liechtenstein. It is the only painting by Leonardo on public view in the Americas. It is known that Leonardo painted a portrait of Ginevra de’ Benci in 1474, painted in Florence possibly to commemorate her marriage that year to Luigi di Bernardo Niccolini at the age of 16. According to Giorgio Vasari’s Lives of the Artists (second edition, 1568), however, Ginevra was not the daughter of Amerigo de’ Benci, and the wife of Luigi di Bernardo Niccolini. They married on 14 January 1474. The painting’s imagery and the text on the reverse of the panel support the identification of this picture. Directly behind the young lady in the portrait is a juniper tree. The reverse of the portrait is decorated with a juniper sprig encircled by a wreath of laurel and palm and is memorialized by the phrase ("beauty adorns virtue"). The Latin motto , on the reverse of the portrait, also is understood as symbolizing her intellectual and moral virtue, while the sprig of juniper ("ginepro"), encircled by laurel and palm, suggests Ginevra's name. The laurel and palm are in the personal emblem of Bernardo Bembo, Venetian ambassador to Florence, whose platonic relationship with Ginevra is revealed in poems dedicated to them. Infrared examination has revealed Bembo's motto "Virtue and Honor" beneath Ginevra's. So it is likely Bembo ordered the emblematic painting on the verso of the portrait. The researcher and cryptographer Carla Glori, in her book “Enigma Leonardo:decifrazioni e scoperte” by using a scientific method to decipher the message encrypted by the motto VIRTUTEM FORMA DECORAT, discovered a Latin sentence with the very same alphabetical letters, having a meaning referable to the portrait and to the biography of Ginevra Benci. The portrait is one of the highlights of the National Gallery of Art, and is admired by many for its portrayal of Ginevra's temperament. Ginevra is beautiful, but austere; she has no hint of a smile and her gaze, although forward, seems indifferent to the viewer. A strip from the bottom of the painting was removed in the past, presumably owing to damage, and Ginevra's arms and hands were lost. Using the golden section, Susan Dorothea White has drawn an interpretation of how her arms and hands may have been positioned in the original.[citation needed] The adaptation is based on images of hands by Leonardo that are thought to have been executed as studies for this painting. According to Giorgio Vasari, Ginevra de’ Benci was also included in the fresco by Domenico Ghirlandaio of the Visitation of Mary and Elizabeth in the church of Santa Maria Novella in Florence, but it is now believed that Vasari made a mistake and that Ghirlandaio painted Giovanna Tornabuoni.[citation needed] As a woman of renowned beauty, Ginevra de' Benci was also the subject of ten poems written by members of the Medici circle, Cristoforo Landino and Alessandro Braccesi, and of two sonnets by Lorenzo de' Medici himself. According to the art-critic Maike Vogt-Luerssen the depicted lady is not Ginevra de' Benci but Fioretta Gorini, the widow of Giuliano de' Medici.. 
General William Tecumseh Sherman Monument. Author Name: Carl Rohl-Smith. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . General William Tecumseh Sherman Monument is an equestrian statue of American Civil War Major General William Tecumseh Sherman located in Sherman Plaza, which is part of President's Park in Washington, D.C., in the United States. The selection of an artist in 1896 to design the monument was highly controversial. During the monument's design phase, artist Carl Rohl-Smith died, and his memorial was finished by a number of other sculptors. The Sherman statue was unveiled in 1903. It is a contributing element to the Civil War Monuments in Washington, D.C. (added in 1973) and to the President's Park South (added in 1980), both of which are protected historic sites listed on the National Register of Historic Places.. General William Tecumseh Sherman Monument is an equestrian statue of American Civil War Major General William Tecumseh Sherman located in Sherman Plaza, which is part of President's Park in Washington, D.C., in the United States. The selection of an artist in 1896 to design the monument was highly controversial. During the monument's design phase, artist Carl Rohl-Smith died, and his memorial was finished by a number of other sculptors. The Sherman statue was unveiled in 1903. It is a contributing element to the Civil War Monuments in Washington, D.C. (added in 1973) and to the President's Park South (added in 1980), both of which are protected historic sites listed on the National Register of Historic Places.. 
Cornflowers. Author Name: Sergei Ivanovich Osipov. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Cornflowers is a painting by the Russian artist Sergei Ivanovich Osipov (1915–1985), executed in 1976 and related to his most famous works in the genre of still life.. Cornflowers is a painting by the Russian artist Sergei Ivanovich Osipov (1915–1985), executed in 1976 and related to his most famous works in the genre of still life.. 
The Suicide of Saul. Author Name: Pieter Bruegel the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_and_Flemish_Renaissance_painting. . The Suicide of Saul is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in 1562. It is currently held and exhibited at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna.. The Suicide of Saul is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in 1562. It is currently held and exhibited at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna.. 
Portrait of Juan de Pareja. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Portrait of Juan de Pareja is a painting by Spanish artist Diego Velázquez, dating from around 1650 and currently on display at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City.. The Portrait of Juan de Pareja is a painting by Spanish artist Diego Velázquez, dating from around 1650 and currently on display at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City.. 
Head of a Woman. Author Name: Leonardo da Vinci. . . The Head of a Woman—also known as La Scapigliata— is a painting in oil on wood by the Italian Renaissance master Leonardo da Vinci, dating from perhaps around 1500 and housed in the Galleria Nazionale di Parma, Italy.. The Head of a Woman—also known as La Scapigliata— is a painting in oil on wood by the Italian Renaissance master Leonardo da Vinci, dating from perhaps around 1500 and housed in the Galleria Nazionale di Parma, Italy.. 
The Beloved. Author Name: Dante Gabriel Rossetti. . . The Beloved (also The Bride) is an oil painting on canvas by English artist Dante Gabriel Rossetti, first painted in 1865 and currently housed at Tate Britain.. The Beloved (also The Bride) is an oil painting on canvas by English artist Dante Gabriel Rossetti, first painted in 1865 and currently housed at Tate Britain.. 
St. Jerome in the Wilderness. Author Name: Albrecht Dürer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . St. Jerome in the Wilderness is a double-sided oil on panel painting by the German Renaissance artist Albrecht Dürer, executed around 1496, now in the National Gallery in London, where both sides are displayed.. St. Jerome in the Wilderness is a double-sided oil on panel painting by the German Renaissance artist Albrecht Dürer, executed around 1496, now in the National Gallery in London, where both sides are displayed.. 
Portrait of Captain Thomas Coram. Author Name: William  Hogarth. . . Portrait of Captain Thomas Coram is a 1740 portrait of philanthropist Thomas Coram painted by William Hogarth. The portrait, which represents Hogarth’s highest achievement in direct portraiture, was not created as a commission and was instead donated to Coram's Foundling Hospital. The portrait is divided into two sections: The left side represents Coram's sea ventures, a major source of his wealth. The right side shows a curtain pulled over a mother figure with a child/The painting is now in the collection of London's Foundling Museum.. Portrait of Captain Thomas Coram is a 1740 portrait of philanthropist Thomas Coram painted by William Hogarth. The portrait, which represents Hogarth’s highest achievement in direct portraiture, was not created as a commission and was instead donated to Coram's Foundling Hospital. The portrait is divided into two sections: The left side represents Coram's sea ventures, a major source of his wealth. The right side shows a curtain pulled over a mother figure with a child/ The painting is now in the collection of London's Foundling Museum.. 
Almond Blossom, 1890. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Almond Blossoms is from a group of several paintings made in 1888 and 1890 by Vincent van Gogh in Arles and Saint-Rémy, southern France of blossoming almond trees. Flowering trees were special to Van Gogh. They represented awakening and hope. He enjoyed them aesthetically and found joy in painting flowering trees. The works reflect Impressionist, Divisionist and Japanese woodcut influences. Almond Blossoms was made to celebrate the birth of his nephew and namesake, son of his brother Theo and sister-in-law Jo.. Almond Blossoms is from a group of several paintings made in 1888 and 1890 by Vincent van Gogh in Arles and Saint-Rémy, southern France of blossoming almond trees. Flowering trees were special to Van Gogh. They represented awakening and hope. He enjoyed them aesthetically and found joy in painting flowering trees. The works reflect Impressionist, Divisionist and Japanese woodcut influences. Almond Blossoms was made to celebrate the birth of his nephew and namesake, son of his brother Theo and sister-in-law Jo.. 
The Responsibility of Raising a Child. Author Name: Bartow, Rick. . . The Responsibility of Raising a Child, also known as From the Mad River to the Little Salmon River, or The Responsibility of Raising a Child, is an outdoor 2004 bronze sculpture by Native American artist Rick Bartow, located in Portland, Oregon, United States.. The Responsibility of Raising a Child, also known as From the Mad River to the Little Salmon River, or The Responsibility of Raising a Child, is an outdoor 2004 bronze sculpture by Native American artist Rick Bartow, located in Portland, Oregon, United States.. 
Beacon of Hope. Author Name: Scott, Andy. . . The Thanksgiving Statue is a £300,000 public art metal sculpture by Andy Scott 19.5 metres high constructed in 2007 in Thanksgiving Square in Belfast. As with other public works of art in Ireland the sculpture has been given several nicknames. These include the Beacon of Hope, Nuala with the Hula (credited to Gerard Doyle), the Belle on the Ball and the Thing with the Ring.It is currently the second largest public art sculpture in Belfast, after Rise on Broadway Roundabout.. The Thanksgiving Statue is a £300,000 public art metal sculpture by Andy Scott 19.5 metres high constructed in 2007 in Thanksgiving Square in Belfast. As with other public works of art in Ireland the sculpture has been given several nicknames. These include the Beacon of Hope, Nuala with the Hula (credited to Gerard Doyle), the Belle on the Ball and the Thing with the Ring. It is currently the second largest public art sculpture in Belfast, after Rise on Broadway Roundabout.. 
Ploughing in the Nivernais. Author Name: Rosa Bonheur. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Ploughing in the Nivernais (French: Labourage nivernais), also known as Oxen ploughing in Nevers, is a painting by French artist Rosa Bonheur. It depicts two teams of oxen ploughing the land, and expresses the deep commitment to the land that was typical of the French Third Republic; it may have been inspired by the opening scene of George Sand's 1846 novel La Mare au Diable. Commissioned by the government and winner of a First Medal at the Salon in 1849, today it is held in the Musée d'Orsay in Paris.. Ploughing in the Nivernais (French: Labourage nivernais), also known as Oxen ploughing in Nevers, is a painting by French artist Rosa Bonheur. It depicts two teams of oxen ploughing the land, and expresses the deep commitment to the land that was typical of the French Third Republic; it may have been inspired by the opening scene of George Sand's 1846 novel La Mare au Diable. Commissioned by the government and winner of a First Medal at the Salon in 1849, today it is held in the Musée d'Orsay in Paris.. 
Portrait of Laura Dianti. Author Name: Titian. . . Portrait of Laura Dianti is a c. 1520–25 painting by Titian, now held in the H. Kisters Collection at Kreuzlingen. It is signed "" and depicts Laura Dianti, lover and later wife of Alfonso I d'Este.Titian painted several portraits of Dianti, perhaps including the Woman with a Mirror, now at the Louvre. In this one, she wears a sumptuous blue dress, jewellery and a diadem. Her right arm runs down the side of her body while her left hand rests on the shoulder of an African page boy.. Portrait of Laura Dianti is a c. 1520–25 painting by Titian, now held in the H. Kisters Collection at Kreuzlingen. It is signed "" and depicts Laura Dianti, lover and later wife of Alfonso I d'Este. Titian painted several portraits of Dianti, perhaps including the Woman with a Mirror, now at the Louvre. In this one, she wears a sumptuous blue dress, jewellery and a diadem. Her right arm runs down the side of her body while her left hand rests on the shoulder of an African page boy.. 
The Fighting Temeraire tugged to her last Berth to be broken up, 1838. Author Name: J. M. W. Turner. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . The Fighting Temeraire tugged to her last berth to be broken up, 1838 is an oil painting by the English artist J. M. W. Turner. It was painted in 1838 and exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1839. The 98-gun ship HMS Temeraire was one of the last second-rate ships of the line to have played a distinguished role in the Battle of Trafalgar in 1805. The painting depicts HMS Temeraire being towed by a paddle-wheel steam tug towards its final berth in Rotherhithe in south-east London in 1838 to be broken up for scrap. The painting hangs in the National Gallery, London, having been bequeathed to the nation by the artist in 1851. In 2005 it was voted the nation's favourite painting in a poll organised by BBC Radio 4's Today programme.. The Fighting Temeraire tugged to her last berth to be broken up, 1838 is an oil painting by the English artist J. M. W. Turner. It was painted in 1838 and exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1839. The 98-gun ship HMS Temeraire was one of the last second-rate ships of the line to have played a distinguished role in the Battle of Trafalgar in 1805. The painting depicts HMS Temeraire being towed by a paddle-wheel steam tug towards its final berth in Rotherhithe in south-east London in 1838 to be broken up for scrap. The painting hangs in the National Gallery, London, having been bequeathed to the nation by the artist in 1851. In 2005 it was voted the nation's favourite painting in a poll organised by BBC Radio 4's Today programme. Turner displayed the painting in 1839 accompanied by an altered excerpt from Thomas Campbell's poem Ye Mariners of England, reading:. 
LightShed. Author Name: Liz Magor. . . LightShed is a 2004 sculpture by Liz Magor, located on the seawall of Harbour Green Park in the Coal Harbour neighborhood of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. The work was privately commissioned by Grosvenor Canada Limited but was subjected to the same processes and guidelines required by the City of Vancouver's public art program, including a call for submissions, juried selection and public hearing.. LightShed is a 2004 sculpture by Liz Magor, located on the seawall of Harbour Green Park in the Coal Harbour neighborhood of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. The work was privately commissioned by Grosvenor Canada Limited but was subjected to the same processes and guidelines required by the City of Vancouver's public art program, including a call for submissions, juried selection and public hearing.. 
Apparition of a Face and Fruit Dish on a Beach. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Apparition of Face and Fruit Dish on a Beach (1938) is a painting by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dalí.The painting is dominated by a depiction of brown-skinned pears with the eponymous footed silver fruit bowl, which somewhat resembles a wine glass (specifically a coupe). A deliberately created optical illusion of the eponymous human face (a face which would reappear in one of Dalí's later works, The Endless Enigma[citation needed]) occupies the same space as the dish; the fruits suggest wavy hair, the dish's bowl becomes the forehead, the stem of the dish serves as the bridge of the nose, and the dish's foot doubles as the chin. The eyes of the large face, however, are formed by background objects lying on the sand at the edge of the strand — deeper in the image — rather than sharing . Apparition of Face and Fruit Dish on a Beach (1938) is a painting by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dalí. The painting is dominated by a depiction of brown-skinned pears with the eponymous footed silver fruit bowl, which somewhat resembles a wine glass (specifically a coupe). A deliberately created optical illusion of the eponymous human face (a face which would reappear in one of Dalí's later works, The Endless Enigma[citation needed]) occupies the same space as the dish; the fruits suggest wavy hair, the dish's bowl becomes the forehead, the stem of the dish serves as the bridge of the nose, and the dish's foot doubles as the chin. The eyes of the large face, however, are formed by background objects lying on the sand at the edge of the strand — deeper in the image — rather than sharing form with the fruit dish. The face's right eye is what appears to be a shell, and the face's left eye a piece of a ship or boat. In the middle ground of the scene, where the sand of the beach appears to end, a small version of the fruit dish can be seen on the ground with several pears scattered near it, all to the same scale as the only embodied human figures depicted in the painting. A second iteration of the face appears further in the distance, just to the right of the elbow of the nude male figure; in the same area of the painting, two dogs are playing along a path in the distance. One of those dogs is itself an echo of the immense, illusionary figure of a dog which stretches from the left to the right margin of the painting, with the dog's collar formed by a multi-arched bridge or aqueduct in the landscape beyond. This repetition of shapes is a frequent motif in Dalí's surrealist works. Apparition of Face and Fruit Dish on a Beach is part of the Ella Gallup Sumner and Mary Catlin Sumner Collection of the Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art in Hartford, Connecticut.. 
A break away!. Author Name: Tom Roberts. . . A break away! is an 1891 painting by Australian artist Tom Roberts. The painting depicts a mob of thirsty sheep stampeding towards a dam. A drover on horseback is attempting to turn the mob before they drown or crush each other in their desire to drink. The painting, an "icon of Australian art", is part of a series of works by Roberts that "captures what was an emerging spirit of national identity."The painting is now part of the collection of the Art Gallery of South Australia. It was included in Quintessence Editions Ltd.'s 2007 book 1001 Paintings You Must See Before You Die.. A break away! is an 1891 painting by Australian artist Tom Roberts. The painting depicts a mob of thirsty sheep stampeding towards a dam. A drover on horseback is attempting to turn the mob before they drown or crush each other in their desire to drink. The painting, an "icon of Australian art", is part of a series of works by Roberts that "captures what was an emerging spirit of national identity." Roberts painted the work at Corowa. The painting depicts a time of drought, with little grass and the soil kicked up as dust. The work itself is a reflection on the pioneering days of the pastoral industry, which were coming to an end by the 1890s. The painting is now part of the collection of the Art Gallery of South Australia. It was included in Quintessence Editions Ltd.'s 2007 book 1001 Paintings You Must See Before You Die.. 
The Corpus Christi Procession Leaving the Church of Santa Maria del Mar. Author Name: Ramon Casas. . Author Movement: Modernisme. . The Corpus Christi Procession Leaving the Church of Santa Maria del Mar is an oil painting by Ramon Casas painted in 1907 in Barcelona and currently in the Museu Nacional d'Art de Catalunya in Barcelona.In 1896, an anarchist attacked the Corpus Christi procession, which had left the Church of Santa Maria del Mar of Barcelona, killing twelve people and created panic in the city. The fact was part of the turbulent social landscape in the Catalonia of the early 20th century, dominated by anarchist bombings like this or that had taken place in Gran Teatre del Liceu four years earlier.. The Corpus Christi Procession Leaving the Church of Santa Maria del Mar is an oil painting by Ramon Casas painted in 1907 in Barcelona and currently in the Museu Nacional d'Art de Catalunya in Barcelona. In 1896, an anarchist attacked the Corpus Christi procession, which had left the Church of Santa Maria del Mar of Barcelona, killing twelve people and created panic in the city. The fact was part of the turbulent social landscape in the Catalonia of the early 20th century, dominated by anarchist bombings like this or that had taken place in Gran Teatre del Liceu four years earlier.. 
Paysage coloré aux oiseaux aquatiques. Author Name: Jean Metzinger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Paysage coloré aux oiseaux aquatiques (Colored Landscape with Aquatic Birds) is an oil painting created circa 1907 by the French artist and theorist Jean Metzinger. Paysage coloré aux oiseaux aquatiques is a Proto-Cubist work executed in a Post-Divisionist style with a unique Fauve-like palette. Metzinger's broad omnidirectional brushstrokes in the treatment of surfaces render homage to Paul Cézanne, while the luscious subtropical imagery in the painting are an homage to Paul Gauguin and Metzinger's friend Henri Rousseau.. Paysage coloré aux oiseaux aquatiques (Colored Landscape with Aquatic Birds) is an oil painting created circa 1907 by the French artist and theorist Jean Metzinger. Paysage coloré aux oiseaux aquatiques is a Proto-Cubist work executed in a Post-Divisionist style with a unique Fauve-like palette. Metzinger's broad omnidirectional brushstrokes in the treatment of surfaces render homage to Paul Cézanne, while the luscious subtropical imagery in the painting are an homage to Paul Gauguin and Metzinger's friend Henri Rousseau. Paysage coloré aux oiseaux aquatiques is located at the Musée d’Art Moderne de la Ville de Paris.. 
La Gare de Perpignan. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . La Gare de Perpignan (Perpignan Train Station) is a 1965 large-scale oil on canvas painting by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dalí, on display in the Museum Ludwig in Cologne.The Perpignan railway station held special significance for Dalí, who had proclaimed it to be the "Center of the Universe" after experiencing a vision of cosmogonic ecstasy there in 1963.. La Gare de Perpignan (Perpignan Train Station) is a 1965 large-scale oil on canvas painting by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dalí, on display in the Museum Ludwig in Cologne. The Perpignan railway station held special significance for Dalí, who had proclaimed it to be the "Center of the Universe" after experiencing a vision of cosmogonic ecstasy there in 1963.. 
Bust of Costanza Bonarelli. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Bust of Costanza Bonarelli is a marble portrait sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini, created in the 1630s. It is housed in the Museo Nazionale del Bargello in Florence, Italy. Considered among the most personal of Bernini's work, the bust depicts Costanza Piccolomini Bonarelli, the wife of Matteo Bonarelli, one of Bernini's pupils and coworkers. Bernini fell passionately in love with her. It is an exceptional sculpture in that it breaks with the tradition of seventeenth century portrait sculpturing and previews the style of the next century.. The Bust of Costanza Bonarelli is a marble portrait sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini, created in the 1630s. It is housed in the Museo Nazionale del Bargello in Florence, Italy. Considered among the most personal of Bernini's work, the bust depicts Costanza Piccolomini Bonarelli, the wife of Matteo Bonarelli, one of Bernini's pupils and coworkers. Bernini fell passionately in love with her. It is an exceptional sculpture in that it breaks with the tradition of seventeenth century portrait sculpturing and previews the style of the next century.. 
Malaya Sadovaya street. Author Name: Alexander Mikhailovich Semionov. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Painting Malaya Sadovaya street was painted in 1979 by the Russian artist Alexander Semionov (1922–1984). Author has depicted a view of the famous Malaya Sadovaya Street in rainy day of the end of the 1970s. This cityscape was painted in traditions of the Leningrad School and Soviet figurative painting of late Socialist realism with their typical synthesis of realistic and impressionistic traditions for create an image of modernity.. Painting Malaya Sadovaya street was painted in 1979 by the Russian artist Alexander Semionov (1922–1984). Author has depicted a view of the famous Malaya Sadovaya Street in rainy day of the end of the 1970s. This cityscape was painted in traditions of the Leningrad School and Soviet figurative painting of late Socialist realism with their typical synthesis of realistic and impressionistic traditions for create an image of modernity.. 
The Star of Bethlehem. Author Name: Sir Edward Burne-Jones, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Aestheticism. . The Star of Bethlehem is a painting in watercolour by Sir Edward Burne-Jones depicting the Adoration of the Magi with an angel holding the star of Bethlehem. It was commissioned by the Corporation of the City of Birmingham for its new Museum and Art Gallery in 1887, two years after Burne-Jones was elected Honorary President of the Royal Birmingham Society of Artists. At 101 1/8 x 152 inches, The Star of Bethlehem was the largest watercolour of the 19th century. It was completed in 1890 and was first exhibited in 1891.. The Star of Bethlehem is a painting in watercolour by Sir Edward Burne-Jones depicting the Adoration of the Magi with an angel holding the star of Bethlehem. It was commissioned by the Corporation of the City of Birmingham for its new Museum and Art Gallery in 1887, two years after Burne-Jones was elected Honorary President of the Royal Birmingham Society of Artists. At 101 1/8 x 152 inches, The Star of Bethlehem was the largest watercolour of the 19th century. It was completed in 1890 and was first exhibited in 1891.. 
A Philosopher Lecturing on the Orrery. Author Name: Joseph Wright. . . A Philosopher Lecturing on the Orrery, or the full title, A Philosopher giving a Lecture on the Orrery in which a lamp is put in place of the Sun, is a painting by Joseph Wright of Derby depicting a lecturer giving a demonstration of an orrery to a small audience. The painting preceded his similar An Experiment on a Bird in the Air Pump (National Gallery, London).. A Philosopher Lecturing on the Orrery, or the full title, A Philosopher giving a Lecture on the Orrery in which a lamp is put in place of the Sun, is a painting by Joseph Wright of Derby depicting a lecturer giving a demonstration of an orrery to a small audience. The painting preceded his similar An Experiment on a Bird in the Air Pump (National Gallery, London). The first of Wright's candlelit masterpieces, Three Persons Viewing the Gladiator by Candlelight, was painted in 1765, and showed three men studying a small copy of the "Borghese Gladiator". The Gladiator was greatly admired; but his next painting, The Orrery, caused a greater stir, as it replaced the Classical subject at the centre of the scene with one of a scientific nature. Wright's depiction of the awe produced by scientific "miracles" marked a break with previous traditions in which the artistic depiction of such wonder was reserved for religious events, since to Wright the marvels of the technological age were as awe-inspiring as the subjects of the great religious paintings. In both of these works the candlelit setting had a realist justification. Viewing sculpture by candlelight, when the contours showed well, and there might even be an impression of movement from the flickering light, was a fashionable practice described by Goethe. In the orrery demonstration the shadows cast by the lamp representing the sun were an essential part of the display. But there seems no reason other than heightened drama to stage the air pump experiment in a room lit by a single candle, and in two later paintings of the subject by Charles-Amédée-Philippe van Loo the lighting is normal. The painting was one of a number of British works challenging the set categories of the rigid, French-dictated, hierarchy of genres in the late 18th century, as other types of painting aspired to be treated as seriously as the costumed history painting of a Classical or mythological subject. In some respects the Orrery and Air Pump subjects resembled conversation pieces, then largely a form of middle-class portraiture, though soon to be given new status when Johann Zoffany began to paint the royal family in about 1766. Given their solemn atmosphere however, and as it seems none of the figures are intended to be understood as portraits (even if models may be identified), the paintings can not be regarded as conversation pieces. The 20th-century art historian Ellis Waterhouse compares these two works to the "genre serieux" of contemporary French drama, as defined by Denis Diderot and Pierre Beaumarchais, a view endorsed by Egerton. An anonymous review from the time called Wright "a very great and uncommon genius in a peculiar way". The Orrery was painted without a commission, probably in the expectation that it would be bought by Washington Shirley, 5th Earl Ferrers, an amateur astronomer who had an orrery of his own, and with whom Wright's friend Peter Perez Burdett was staying while in Derbyshire. Figures thought to be portraits of Burdett and Ferrers feature in the painting, Burdett taking notes and Ferrers seated with a youth next to the orrery.Ferrers purchased the painting for £210, but the 6th Earl auctioned it off, and it is now held by Derby Museum and Art Gallery, where it is on permanent display, and close to a working replica of a full-sized mechanical Grand Orrery. A biographer of Wright, Benedict Nicolson, argued in 1968 that John Whitehurst was the model for the lecturer, while another commentator points out the figure's resemblance to "a painting of Isaac Newton by Godfrey Kneller". Close observation of the adult faces in the picture reveals that each one demonstrates one or other of the main phases of the moon – new moon, half moon, gibbous moon and full moon.. 
Girl before a mirror. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Girl Before a Mirror is a painting by Pablo Picasso that was painted in March, 1932. The painting has been widely known for its varied interpretations of the lover and the beloved. Girl Before a Mirror was painted during Picasso's cubism period.. Girl Before a Mirror is a painting by Pablo Picasso that was painted in March, 1932. The painting has been widely known for its varied interpretations of the lover and the beloved. Girl Before a Mirror was painted during Picasso's cubism period.. 
Sasquatch Pushing Over a House. Author Name: Beyer, Richard. . . Sasquatch Pushing Over a House is an outdoor 1982 sculpture by Richard Beyer, installed Seattle's University Playground, in the U.S. state of Washington.. Sasquatch Pushing Over a House is an outdoor 1982 sculpture by Richard Beyer, installed Seattle's University Playground, in the U.S. state of Washington.. 
The Bathers. Author Name: Paul Cézanne. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . The Bathers (French: Les Grandes Baigneuses) is an oil painting by French artist Paul Cézanne first exhibited in 1906. The painting is the largest of a series of "Bather" paintings by Cézanne; the others are in the Museum of Modern Art in New York City, National Gallery, London, the Barnes Foundation, Philadelphia, and the Art Institute of Chicago. Occasionally referred to as the Big Bathers or Large Bathers to distinguish it from the smaller works, the painting is considered one of the masterpieces of modern art, and is often considered Cézanne's finest work.. The Bathers (French: Les Grandes Baigneuses) is an oil painting by French artist Paul Cézanne first exhibited in 1906. The painting is the largest of a series of "Bather" paintings by Cézanne; the others are in the Museum of Modern Art in New York City, National Gallery, London, the Barnes Foundation, Philadelphia, and the Art Institute of Chicago. Occasionally referred to as the Big Bathers or Large Bathers to distinguish it from the smaller works, the painting is considered one of the masterpieces of modern art, and is often considered Cézanne's finest work. Cézanne worked on the painting for seven years, and it remained unfinished at the time of his death in 1906. The painting was purchased in 1937 for $110,000 with funds from a trust fund for the Philadelphia Museum of Art by their major benefactor Joseph E. Widener. It was previously owned by Leo Stein. With each version of the bathers, Cézanne moved away from the traditional presentation of paintings, intentionally creating works which would not appeal to the novice viewer. He did this in order to avoid fleeting fads and give a timeless quality to his work, and in so doing paved the way for future artists to disregard current trends and paint pieces which would appeal equally to all generations. The abstract nude females present in Large Bathers give the painting tension and density. It is exceptional among his work in symmetrical dimensions, with the adaption of the nude forms to the triangular pattern of the trees and river. Using the same technique as employed in painting landscapes and still lifes, Large Bathers is reminiscent of the work of Titian and Peter Paul Rubens. Comparisons are also often made with the other famous group of nude women of the same period, Picasso's Les Demoiselles d'Avignon. The purchase of the painting, while generally praised, was nevertheless questioned by The Philadelphia Record, which noted that 41,000 (or ten percent) of Philadelphia's residents were without bathtubs, and that the money could therefore have been better spent elsewhere. While Cézanne's drawing ability has always been criticized, a critic once said that he "made the ineptly drawn Bathers a warm evocation of leisurely summer bliss." The painting was featured in the BBC Two series 100 Great Paintings.. 
Self-Portrait with Beret and Turned-Up Collar. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Self-Portrait with Beret and Turned-Up Collar is a 1659 oil on canvas painting by the Dutch artist Rembrandt. It has been noted as a self-portrayal of subtle and somber qualities, a work in which may be seen "the stresses and strains of a life compounded of creative triumphs and personal and financial reverses". Part of the Andrew W. Mellon Collection, it has been in the National Gallery of Art since 1937.. Self-Portrait with Beret and Turned-Up Collar is a 1659 oil on canvas painting by the Dutch artist Rembrandt. It has been noted as a self-portrayal of subtle and somber qualities, a work in which may be seen "the stresses and strains of a life compounded of creative triumphs and personal and financial reverses". Part of the Andrew W. Mellon Collection, it has been in the National Gallery of Art since 1937.. 
Draped Reclining Figure, 1952-53. Author Name: Henry Moore. . Author Movement: Bronze Sculpture, Modernism. . Draped Reclining Figure, 1952–53 is a bronze sculpture by Henry Moore.. Draped Reclining Figure, 1952–53 is a bronze sculpture by Henry Moore.. 
The Weeping Woman. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The theft of The Weeping Woman from the National Gallery of Victoria was an art theft of one of a series of paintings by Pablo Picasso known as The Weeping Woman from the National Gallery of Victoria on 2 August 1986. The National Gallery of Victoria had purchased the work for A$1.6 million in 1985, at the time the highest price paid by an Australian art gallery for an artwork. The theft was claimed to be made by a group calling itself "Australian Cultural Terrorists". A number of demands (and insults) by the group were made in letters to the then Victorian Minister for the Arts, Race Mathews. The demands included increases to funding for the arts; threats were made that the painting would be destroyed. After an anonymous tip-off to police, the painting was found undamaged in a locker at S. The theft of The Weeping Woman from the National Gallery of Victoria was an art theft of one of a series of paintings by Pablo Picasso known as The Weeping Woman from the National Gallery of Victoria on 2 August 1986. The National Gallery of Victoria had purchased the work for A$1.6 million in 1985, at the time the highest price paid by an Australian art gallery for an artwork. The theft was claimed to be made by a group calling itself "Australian Cultural Terrorists". A number of demands (and insults) by the group were made in letters to the then Victorian Minister for the Arts, Race Mathews. The demands included increases to funding for the arts; threats were made that the painting would be destroyed. After an anonymous tip-off to police, the painting was found undamaged in a locker at Spencer Street Station on 19 August 1986. The theft still remains unsolved.. 
Winter Landscape near Haarlem. Author Name: Jacob van Ruisdael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_Golden_Age_painting. . Winter Landscape near Haarlem (c. 1670s) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch landscape painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Städel.This painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1911, who wrote; "992. A WINTER LANDSCAPE. A snow-bound plain with trees to right and left. In the centre a road leads to the distance ; away to the right is a cottage. In the centre foreground stands a solitary lamp-post. To the left of this are two travellers with a dog. Signed in full, according to the Sedelmeyer sale-catalogue, but the Frankfort catalogue does not mention a signature ; canvas, 14 1/2 inches by 12 1/2 inches. Exhibited at Vienna, 1873, No. 165.. Winter Landscape near Haarlem (c. 1670s) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch landscape painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Städel.This painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1911, who wrote; "992. A WINTER LANDSCAPE. A snow-bound plain with trees to right and left. In the centre a road leads to the distance ; away to the right is a cottage. In the centre foreground stands a solitary lamp-post. To the left of this are two travellers with a dog. Signed in full, according to the Sedelmeyer sale-catalogue, but the Frankfort catalogue does not mention a signature ; canvas, 14 1/2 inches by 12 1/2 inches. Exhibited at Vienna, 1873, No. 165. Sales. C. Sedelmeyer, Vienna, December 20, 1872, No. 144. Lippmann von Lissingen of Vienna, Paris, March 16, 1876, No. 38 ; bought for the Institute by the Frankfort Art Union. In the Stadel'sches Kunstinstitut, Frankfort -on -Main, 1900 catalogue, No. 272." This scene is very similar to other paintings Ruisdael made in this period and these often served as inspiration for later painters of winter landscape. The lamp post in the painting has been identified as the invention of Jan van der Heyden which is the reason the painting can be dated to after 1670. Such lamp posts appear in other Ruisdael paintings as well.. 
Hiawatha and Minnehaha. Author Name: Fjelde, Jacob. . . Jacob Fjelde's sculpture Hiawatha and Minnehaha has stood in Minnehaha Park in Minneapolis since the early twentieth century. Now a popular fixture of the park, its placement there was originally controversial.Fjelde's expenses for Hiawatha and Minnehaha were paid for by small donations collected from Minnesota schoolchildren. Mrs. L.P. (Lizzie) Hunt, a founding member of the Mankato Art History Club and later an official art critic for the state, organized the fundraising drive.. Jacob Fjelde's sculpture Hiawatha and Minnehaha has stood in Minnehaha Park in Minneapolis since the early twentieth century. Now a popular fixture of the park, its placement there was originally controversial. In 1855, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow published a book-length poem entitled The Song of Hiawatha. Longfellow never visited Minnesota, but he set his poem among the Ojibwe and Dakota of the region. The poem's story line was based on traditional Haudenosaunee (Iroquois) tales, as recorded, sometimes incorrectly, by Henry Rowe Schoolcraft. The Song of Hiawatha was widely read and had significant cultural influence in the United States through the rest of the nineteenth century and into the twentieth century. Accomplished Norwegian sculptor Jacob Fjelde immigrated to Minnesota in 1887, following family members to the area. He established a studio in Minneapolis and began receiving public and private commissions. One commission was to create a sculpture for the Minnesota Building at the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago. Fjelde chose to create Hiawatha and Minnehaha, a plaster sculpture illustrating a particular section of Longfellow's poem, The Song of Hiawatha. This work was installed at the entrance of the Minnesota Building for the duration of the 1893 Exposition. Then, it was put on display in the Minneapolis Public Library. Fjelde's expenses for Hiawatha and Minnehaha were paid for by small donations collected from Minnesota schoolchildren. Mrs. L.P. (Lizzie) Hunt, a founding member of the Mankato Art History Club and later an official art critic for the state, organized the fundraising drive. Beginning in 1902, an informal public campaign was launched to cast Fjelde's original plaster Hiawatha and Minnehaha sculpture in bronze and place it in Minneapolis's Minnehaha Park, near the falls mentioned in Longfellow's poem. Critics of the move said that the piece was "flawed," specifically that the features of Hiawatha and Minnehaha were not Indian enough. Fjelde had struggled to find American Indian people to model the faces after, and he relied on photographs to guide his work. The sculptor died in 1896, so significant changes to the sculpture were no longer possible by 1902. The debate continued until 1912, when the sculpture finally was cast, then installed and unveiled in a public ceremony at Minnehaha Park on October 5. Charles M. Loring, the first president of the Board of Park Commissioners for the Minneapolis Park System, gave a dedicatory speech. Local schoolchildren sang and recited parts of Longfellow's poem as part of the program. Fjelde's Hiawatha and Minnehaha sculpture soon became a visitor attraction in the park, and postcards depicting it were widely available. As of 2011, the sculpture remains in its location along Minnehaha Creek and is one of Fjelde's best-known works.. 
Triple Elvis. Author Name: Andy Warhol. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Triple Elvis is a 1963 painting by the American artist Andy Warhol. In November 2014 it sold for $81.9m (£51.9m) at auction in New York.. Triple Elvis is a 1963 painting by the American artist Andy Warhol. In November 2014 it sold for $81.9m (£51.9m) at auction in New York.. 
Winston Churchill. Author Name: Roberts-Jones, Ivor. . . The statue of Winston Churchill in Parliament Square, London, is a bronze sculpture of the former British Prime Minister Sir Winston Churchill, created by Ivor Roberts-Jones.It is located on a spot referred to in the 1950s by Churchill as "where my statue will go". Unveiled by his widow Lady Clementine Spencer-Churchill in 1973, the unveiling was attended by the serving Prime Minister and four former Prime Ministers, while Queen Elizabeth II gave a speech.The statue is one of eight on the central green of Parliament Square, all of well-known statesmen.. The statue of Winston Churchill in Parliament Square, London, is a bronze sculpture of the former British Prime Minister Sir Winston Churchill, created by Ivor Roberts-Jones. It is located on a spot referred to in the 1950s by Churchill as "where my statue will go". Unveiled by his widow Lady Clementine Spencer-Churchill in 1973, the unveiling was attended by the serving Prime Minister and four former Prime Ministers, while Queen Elizabeth II gave a speech. The statue is one of eight on the central green of Parliament Square, all of well-known statesmen.. 
Apotheosis of Palermo. Author Name: D'Anna, Vito. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Apotheosis of Palermo is a fresco by Vito D'Anna in the Palazzo Isnello, Palermo, Italy, considered one of the most representative works of the Sicilian Baroque painting.It is one of the seven monumental representations of the Genius of Palermo.. The Apotheosis of Palermo is a fresco by Vito D'Anna in the Palazzo Isnello, Palermo, Italy, considered one of the most representative works of the Sicilian Baroque painting. It is one of the seven monumental representations of the Genius of Palermo.. 
Soldat jouant aux échecs. Author Name: Jean Metzinger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Soldier at a Game of Chess (in French Soldat jouant aux échecs, or Le Soldat à la partie d'échecs, also referred to as Joueur d'échecs), is a painting by the French artist Jean Metzinger. While serving as a medical orderly during World War I in Sainte-Menehould, France, Metzinger bore witness to the ravages of war firsthand. Rather than depicting such horrors, Metzinger chose to represent a poilu sitting at a game of chess, smoking a cigarette. The military subject of this painting is possibly a self-portrait.. Soldier at a Game of Chess (in French Soldat jouant aux échecs, or Le Soldat à la partie d'échecs, also referred to as Joueur d'échecs), is a painting by the French artist Jean Metzinger. While serving as a medical orderly during World War I in Sainte-Menehould, France, Metzinger bore witness to the ravages of war firsthand. Rather than depicting such horrors, Metzinger chose to represent a poilu sitting at a game of chess, smoking a cigarette. The military subject of this painting is possibly a self-portrait. During the month of March 1915, Metzinger was called to serve the military, and was invalided out of service later that year. Soldier at a Game of Chess was painted either before or during his mobilization. Evidence found in a letter by Metzinger addressed to Léonce Rosenberg suggests the work was painted before his March 1915 mobilization, and possibly late 1914. This distilled form of Cubism, soon to be known as Crystal Cubism, is consistent with Metzinger's shift, between 1914 and 1916, towards a strong emphasis on large, flat surface activity, with overlapping geometric planes. The manifest primacy of the underlying architectonic anatomy of the composition, entrenched in the abstract, controls practically all of the elements of the painting. Color remains primordial but is moderate and sharply delineated by boundary conditions. The painting—a gift of John L. Strauss, Jr. in memory of his father John L. Strauss—forms part of the permanent collection at the Smart Museum of Art, located on the campus of the University of Chicago in Chicago, Illinois.. 
Portrait of a Man. Author Name: Andrea Mantegna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Portrait of a Man (c. 1460–1470) is a painting attributed[clarification needed] to the Italian Renaissance artist Andrea Mantegna. It is housed in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, DC, USA.. Portrait of a Man (c. 1460–1470) is a painting attributed[clarification needed] to the Italian Renaissance artist Andrea Mantegna. It is housed in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, DC, USA.. 
St. Matthew and the angel. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . St. Matthew and the angel (c. 1661) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch landscape painter Rembrandt.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Louvre.This painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1914, who wrote; "173. ST. MATTHEW THE EVANGELIST. Sm. 136; Bode 270 ; Dut. 102 ; Wb. 276 ; B.-HdG. 521. He sits behind a table with a book open before him, and gazes thoughtfully into the distance. He is turned three-quarters right, and wears a coloured cap. His left hand is at his untrimmed and tangled beard ; his right hand, holding a pen, rests on the book. He wears a loose chestnut-brown robe. An angel with rich fair curls at the back to the left lays his right hand on the evangelist's right shoulder and speaks to him. Half-length, life size. St. Matthew and the angel (c. 1661) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch landscape painter Rembrandt.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Louvre. This painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1914, who wrote; "173. ST. MATTHEW THE EVANGELIST. Sm. 136; Bode 270 ; Dut. 102 ; Wb. 276 ; B.-HdG. 521. He sits behind a table with a book open before him, and gazes thoughtfully into the distance. He is turned three-quarters right, and wears a coloured cap. His left hand is at his untrimmed and tangled beard ; his right hand, holding a pen, rests on the book. He wears a loose chestnut-brown robe. An angel with rich fair curls at the back to the left lays his right hand on the evangelist's right shoulder and speaks to him. Half-length, life size. Cf. 172 and 174-5. Signed in the right centre, "Rembrandt f. 1661 "; canvas, 38 inches by 32 inches. Mentioned by Vosmaer, pp. 361, 562 ; by Bode, pp. 523, 594 ; by Dutuit, p. 35 ; by Michel, pp. 463, 562 [361-2, 434]. Etched by Claessens in the Musée Francais ; by Oortman in the Musée Napoléon, in Filhol, viii. 509, and Landon, ii. 57. In the Louvre, Paris, 1907 catalogue, No. 2538." Rembrandt was influenced in his arrangement with the angel acting as an assistant by an earlier work by Frans Hals:. 
The Barbican Muse. Author Name: Spender, Matthew. . . The Barbican Muse is a sculpture of a woman, holding tragedy and comedy masks, by Matthew Spender, and was installed on a wall near the Silk Street entrance to the Barbican Centre in the City of London, England, in 1994.The 20 feet (6.1 m) long illuminated sculpture called Muse was cast in fibreglass and then gilded. It was commissioned, in 1993, by architect Theo Crosby to 'float, glow and point the way' to visitors arriving at the centre on the walkway from Moorgate Station.. The Barbican Muse is a sculpture of a woman, holding tragedy and comedy masks, by Matthew Spender, and was installed on a wall near the Silk Street entrance to the Barbican Centre in the City of London, England, in 1994. The 20 feet (6.1 m) long illuminated sculpture called Muse was cast in fibreglass and then gilded. It was commissioned, in 1993, by architect Theo Crosby to 'float, glow and point the way' to visitors arriving at the centre on the walkway from Moorgate Station. As part of the 1993–1994 refurbishment, Crosby also commissioned nine gilded fibreglass muses by British sculptor Sir Bernard Sindall, but these were removed in April 1997, and sold to Dick Enthoven, owner of Spier Wine Farm, in 1998.. 
Sixtus IV Appointing Platina as Prefect of the Vatican Library. Author Name: Melozzo da Forlì. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Sixtus IV Appointing Platina as Prefect of the Vatican Library is a fresco transferred to canvas by the Italian Renaissance artist Melozzo da Forlì, once decorating the Vatican Library, now housed in the Pinacoteca Vaticana in Rome.The fresco was executed in 1477 as the central scene of the decoration of the Vatican Library, founded by Sixtus IV two years before, including works by Antoniazzo Romano and the brothers Davide and Domenico Ghirlandaio.. Sixtus IV Appointing Platina as Prefect of the Vatican Library is a fresco transferred to canvas by the Italian Renaissance artist Melozzo da Forlì, once decorating the Vatican Library, now housed in the Pinacoteca Vaticana in Rome. The fresco was executed in 1477 as the central scene of the decoration of the Vatican Library, founded by Sixtus IV two years before, including works by Antoniazzo Romano and the brothers Davide and Domenico Ghirlandaio. The scene shows the Pope, seen slightly from below, faced by the kneeling humanist Bartolomeo Platina, together with the Pope's nephews: the two cardinals, Giuliano della Rovere, standing in front of the Pope, and Raffaele Riario behind his chair. To the left are Girolamo Riario and Giuliano's brother Giovanni della Rovere on the left. Giuliano della Rovere was later to become Pope Julius II. The background is a perspective representation of a classic architecture with arcades and a gilted coffer ceiling. Platina is pointing to an inscription, written by himself, which boasts Sixtus' deeds.. 
Ashurbanipal. Author Name: Parhad, Fred. . . Ashurbanipal, also known as the Ashurbanipal Monument or the Statue of Ashurbanipal, is a bronze sculpture by Fred Parhad, an artist of Assyrian descent. It is located in the Civic Center of San Francisco, California, in the United States. The 15-foot (4.6 m) statue depicting the Assyrian king of the same name was commissioned by the Assyrian Foundation for the Arts and presented to the City of San Francisco in 1988 as a gift from the Assyrian people. The sculpture reportedly cost $100,000 and was the first "sizable" bronze statue of Ashurbanipal. It is administered by the City and County of San Francisco and the San Francisco Arts Commission.. Ashurbanipal, also known as the Ashurbanipal Monument or the Statue of Ashurbanipal, is a bronze sculpture by Fred Parhad, an artist of Assyrian descent. It is located in the Civic Center of San Francisco, California, in the United States. The 15-foot (4.6 m) statue depicting the Assyrian king of the same name was commissioned by the Assyrian Foundation for the Arts and presented to the City of San Francisco in 1988 as a gift from the Assyrian people. The sculpture reportedly cost $100,000 and was the first "sizable" bronze statue of Ashurbanipal. It is administered by the City and County of San Francisco and the San Francisco Arts Commission. Parhad's work was met with some criticism by local Assyrians, who argued it was inaccurate to portray Ashurbanipal holding a book and a lion, or wearing a skirt. The critics thought the statue looked more like the Sumerian king Gilgamesh; Renee Kovacs, a "scholar and self-stated Assyriologist", believed the sculpture depicted neither figure, but rather a Mesopotamian "protective figure". Parhad defended the accuracy of his work, while also admitting that he took artistic liberties.. 
Christ Carrying the Cross. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . Christ Carrying the Cross is a painting by Hieronymus Bosch. The date of this painting is 1505-7. It currently resides at Palacio Real in Madrid.. Christ Carrying the Cross is a painting by Hieronymus Bosch. The date of this painting is 1505-7. It currently resides at Palacio Real in Madrid.. 
The Olmec-Maya and Now. Author Name: Aubrey Williams. . . The Olmec-Maya and Now (1981-1985) is a series of large, oil-on-canvas paintings by Aubrey Williams. The series grew out of Williams' enduring interest in pre-Columbian cultures of the indigenous peoples of the Americas (he himself claimed Carib ancestry). It explores parallels between Olmec and Maya civilizations and contemporary global culture, focusing in particular on the threat of rapid demise and self-destruction.. The Olmec-Maya and Now (1981-1985) is a series of large, oil-on-canvas paintings by Aubrey Williams. The series grew out of Williams' enduring interest in pre-Columbian cultures of the indigenous peoples of the Americas (he himself claimed Carib ancestry). It explores parallels between Olmec and Maya civilizations and contemporary global culture, focusing in particular on the threat of rapid demise and self-destruction.. 
Virgin with the Standing Child, Embracing his Mother. Author Name: Giovanni Bellini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . Virgin with the Standing Child, Embracing his Mother, also known as Madonna Willys is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini (Venice, Italy 1425/1433-1516). It is currently housed at the São Paulo Museum of Art in São Paulo, Brazil.. Virgin with the Standing Child, Embracing his Mother, also known as Madonna Willys is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini (Venice, Italy 1425/1433-1516). It is currently housed at the São Paulo Museum of Art in São Paulo, Brazil.. 
Still Life with a Chinese Porcelain Jar. Author Name: Kalf, Willem. . . Still Life with a Chinese Porcelain Jar is a 1669 oil painting by Dutch artist Willem Kalf, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It is a sumptuous still life displaying the sort of costly wares that flowed through the Netherlands during its heyday as a trade center.. Still Life with a Chinese Porcelain Jar is a 1669 oil painting by Dutch artist Willem Kalf, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It is a sumptuous still life displaying the sort of costly wares that flowed through the Netherlands during its heyday as a trade center.. 
The Death of Nelson. Author Name: Benjamin West. . . The Death of Nelson is a painting by the American artist Benjamin West dated 1806.In 1770, West painted The Death of General Wolfe. This was not an accurate representation of the event, but rather an idealisation, and it included people who were not present at the event. Nevertheless it became very popular, and West painted at least five copies.West's painting is in oil on canvas and measures 182.5 centimetres (72 in) by 247.5 centimetres (97 in). It was presented to the Walker Art Gallery by Bristow H. Hughes.. The Death of Nelson is a painting by the American artist Benjamin West dated 1806. In 1770, West painted The Death of General Wolfe. This was not an accurate representation of the event, but rather an idealisation, and it included people who were not present at the event. Nevertheless it became very popular, and West painted at least five copies. In 1801, three years after the Battle of the Nile, West met Horatio Nelson, who told him how much he admired the painting of Wolfe, and asked why he had not produced any more similar paintings. West, who was at the time the President of the Royal Academy, replied that he had found no subject of comparable notability. Nelson then expressed the desire that he would be the subject of West's next similar painting. In 1805, Nelson was killed in the Battle of Trafalgar and, within six months, West had created this painting. Again it proved to be popular. When West exhibited it in his studio, within just over a month it was seen by 30,000 members of the public. Again it was an idealisation of the subject. Although West took considerable trouble about the accuracy of details in his painting, basing the portraits on over 50 survivors of the battle, he produced, as he admitted himself, a picture "of what might have been, not of the circumstances as they happened". West created two more paintings with Nelson as the subject, The Death of Lord Nelson in the Cockpit of the Ship "Victory" and The Immortality of Nelson, both of which are in the National Maritime Museum. Other artists produced works depicting the same event. One of these was Arthur William Devis who painted The Death of Nelson, 21 October 1805, now also in the National Maritime Museum. Another was The Death of Nelson by Daniel Maclise, a large wall painting in the Royal Gallery of the Palace of Westminster. The finished study for this work is owned by the Walker Art Gallery in Liverpool, Merseyside, England, having been bought by the gallery in 1892. West's painting is in oil on canvas and measures 182.5 centimetres (72 in) by 247.5 centimetres (97 in). It was presented to the Walker Art Gallery by Bristow H. Hughes.. 
Queen Victoria Statue. Author Name: Joseph Edgar Boehm. . . The statue of Queen Victoria by Joseph Boehm stands on College Green, Bristol, England.It was made in 1888. The round steps limestone ashlar lead to a square, copper base with fish, putti and inscribed panels, which support the marble statue.The figure of Queen Victoria is holding a sceptre and orb which are now broken. The statue has been moved several times.It has been designated by English Heritage as a grade II listed building.In January 2016 the statue was vandalised by feminist street artist 'Vaj' by adding legs and pubic hair to the lower half of the statue.. The statue of Queen Victoria by Joseph Boehm stands on College Green, Bristol, England. It was made in 1888. The round steps limestone ashlar lead to a square, copper base with fish, putti and inscribed panels, which support the marble statue. The figure of Queen Victoria is holding a sceptre and orb which are now broken. The statue has been moved several times. It has been designated by English Heritage as a grade II listed building. In January 2016 the statue was vandalised by feminist street artist 'Vaj' by adding legs and pubic hair to the lower half of the statue.. 
Imogen and Twinka at Yosemite. Author Name: Dater, Judy. . . Imogen and Twinka at Yosemite is a 1974 photograph by Judy Dater. It depicts elderly photographer Imogen Cunningham, encountering nude model Twinka Thiebaud behind a tree in Yosemite National Park. It is considered Dater's "most popular" photograph and according to the photographer, was inspired by Thomas Hart Benton's painting Persephone, which portrays a voyeur observing a nude woman reclining against a tree, who had been bathing in a stream.. Imogen and Twinka at Yosemite is a 1974 photograph by Judy Dater. It depicts elderly photographer Imogen Cunningham, encountering nude model Twinka Thiebaud behind a tree in Yosemite National Park. It is considered Dater's "most popular" photograph and according to the photographer, was inspired by Thomas Hart Benton's painting Persephone, which portrays a voyeur observing a nude woman reclining against a tree, who had been bathing in a stream.. 
Bonaparte visitant les pestiférés de Jaffa. Author Name: Antoine-Jean Gros. . . Bonaparte Visits the Plague Stricken in Jaffa (French: Bonaparte visitant les pestiférés de Jaffa) is an 1804 painting commissioned by Napoleon Bonaparte from Antoine-Jean Gros to portray an event during the Egyptian Campaign. The scene shows Napoleon during a striking scene which occurred in Jaffa on 11 March 1799, when then General Bonaparte made a daring and spectacular visit to his sick soldiers. It was an attempt to quell unsavory rumours after Napoleon ordered that fifty incurable dying plague victims in Jaffa be poisoned (without complete success) during his retreat from his Syrian expedition.. Bonaparte Visits the Plague Stricken in Jaffa (French: Bonaparte visitant les pestiférés de Jaffa) is an 1804 painting commissioned by Napoleon Bonaparte from Antoine-Jean Gros to portray an event during the Egyptian Campaign. The scene shows Napoleon during a striking scene which occurred in Jaffa on 11 March 1799, when then General Bonaparte made a daring and spectacular visit to his sick soldiers. It was an attempt to quell unsavory rumours after Napoleon ordered that fifty incurable dying plague victims in Jaffa be poisoned (without complete success) during his retreat from his Syrian expedition. This is part of the collection of French paintings at the Louvre.. 
Coming of the White Man. Author Name: Hermon Atkins MacNeil. . . Coming of the White Man is an outdoor bronze sculpture by American artist Hermon Atkins MacNeil, located in Washington Park, Portland, Oregon in the United States. The statue, gifted to the City of Portland in 1904 by former mayor David P. Thompson and installed the following year, depicts two Native American men, including Chief Multnomah, looking towards the Columbia River upon the arrival of Lewis and Clark.. Coming of the White Man is an outdoor bronze sculpture by American artist Hermon Atkins MacNeil, located in Washington Park, Portland, Oregon in the United States. The statue, gifted to the City of Portland in 1904 by former mayor David P. Thompson and installed the following year, depicts two Native American men, including Chief Multnomah, looking towards the Columbia River upon the arrival of Lewis and Clark.. 
Captain George K. H. Coussmaker. Author Name: Sir Joshua Reynolds. . . Captain George K. H. Coussmaker (1782) is an oil on canvas portrait by Joshua Reynolds. Coussmaker was born in London in 1759 to Evert and Mary Coussmaker, and entered the military in 1776. He was promoted several times but never saw active service and retired in 1795. He married Catherine Southwell in 1790 and fathered two children, George and Sophia (later, the Baroness de Clifford). He died in 1801. Coussmaker sat for Reynolds 21 times and his horse 8 times between February 9 and April 16, 1782 - an exceptional number of times. Reynolds was paid 205 pounds, plus 10 guineas for the frame. The portrait remained with Coussmaker and his descendants until 1884 when it was sold to William K. Vanderbilt and bequeathed to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 1920. Museum curators describe the pict. Captain George K. H. Coussmaker (1782) is an oil on canvas portrait by Joshua Reynolds. Coussmaker was born in London in 1759 to Evert and Mary Coussmaker, and entered the military in 1776. He was promoted several times but never saw active service and retired in 1795. He married Catherine Southwell in 1790 and fathered two children, George and Sophia (later, the Baroness de Clifford). He died in 1801. Coussmaker sat for Reynolds 21 times and his horse 8 times between February 9 and April 16, 1782 - an exceptional number of times. Reynolds was paid 205 pounds, plus 10 guineas for the frame. The portrait remained with Coussmaker and his descendants until 1884 when it was sold to William K. Vanderbilt and bequeathed to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 1920. Museum curators describe the picture as "an exceptionally fine work ... The composition is complex and the whole vigorously painted.". 
Christ's Entry Into Brussels in 1889. Author Name: Ensor, James. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Expressionism. . Christ's Entry Into Brussels in 1889 (also known as Entry of Christ into Brussels; French: L'Entrée du Christ à Bruxelles) is an 1888 painting by James Ensor and is considered his most famous work and was a precursor to Expressionism.. Christ's Entry Into Brussels in 1889 (also known as Entry of Christ into Brussels; French: L'Entrée du Christ à Bruxelles) is an 1888 painting by James Ensor and is considered his most famous work and was a precursor to Expressionism.. 
King Gustav III of Sweden and his Brothers. Author Name: Alexander Roslin. . . King Gustav III of Sweden and his Brothers is an oil painting by the Swedish portrait painter Alexander Roslin showing Gustav with his two brothers, Prince Frederick Adolf and Prince Charles, later Charles XIII of Sweden. Frederick is standing, Gustav is sitting to the left, and Charles is to the right. The painting is in the collection of the Swedish National Museum.. King Gustav III of Sweden and his Brothers is an oil painting by the Swedish portrait painter Alexander Roslin showing Gustav with his two brothers, Prince Frederick Adolf and Prince Charles, later Charles XIII of Sweden. Frederick is standing, Gustav is sitting to the left, and Charles is to the right. The painting is in the collection of the Swedish National Museum. The painting has Alexander Roslin's signature in French: Roslin à Paris 1771. Roslin had settled in Paris in 1752; by the time he painted this triple portrait Roslin had already been living in Paris for nineteen years. He would remain there for the rest of his life.. 
Adoration of the Magi. Author Name: Domenico Ghirlandaio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Adoration of the Magi is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Domenico Ghirlandaio, executed around 1485-1488 and housed in the Ospedale degli Innocenti gallery in Florence, Italy. The predella, painted by Bartolomeo di Giovanni, is in the same site.. The Adoration of the Magi is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Domenico Ghirlandaio, executed around 1485-1488 and housed in the Ospedale degli Innocenti gallery in Florence, Italy. The predella, painted by Bartolomeo di Giovanni, is in the same site.. 
Two Rats. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Two Rats is an oil painting created in 1884 by Vincent van Gogh.. Two Rats is an oil painting created in 1884 by Vincent van Gogh.. 
At the Moulin Rouge, The Dance. Author Name: Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Art_Nouveau. . At the Moulin Rouge, the Dance is an oil-on-canvas painted by French artist Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec. It was painted in 1890, and is the second of a number of graphic paintings by Toulouse-Lautrec depicting the Moulin Rouge cabaret built in Paris in 1889. It portrays two dancers dancing the can-can in the middle of the crowded dance hall. A recently discovered inscription by Toulouse-Lautrec on the back of the painting reads: "The instruction of the new ones by Valentine the Boneless." This means that the man to the left of the woman dancing, is Valentin le désossé, a well-known dancer at the Moulin Rouge, and he is teaching the newest addition to the cabaret. To the right, is a mysterious aristocratic women in pink. The background also features many aristocratic people such as poet Edwar. At the Moulin Rouge, the Dance is an oil-on-canvas painted by French artist Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec. It was painted in 1890, and is the second of a number of graphic paintings by Toulouse-Lautrec depicting the Moulin Rouge cabaret built in Paris in 1889. It portrays two dancers dancing the can-can in the middle of the crowded dance hall. A recently discovered inscription by Toulouse-Lautrec on the back of the painting reads: "The instruction of the new ones by Valentine the Boneless." This means that the man to the left of the woman dancing, is Valentin le désossé, a well-known dancer at the Moulin Rouge, and he is teaching the newest addition to the cabaret. To the right, is a mysterious aristocratic women in pink. The background also features many aristocratic people such as poet Edward Yeats, the club owner and even Toulouse-Lautrec's father. The work is currently displayed at the Philadelphia Museum of Art.. 
Bust of Pope Gregory XV. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Bust of Pope Gregory XV is a marble portrait sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Executed in 1621, the work is one of three busts of the subject created by Bernini—the other two were bronze casts. The marble bust is on permanent display at the Art Gallery of Ontario. It was donated to the museum by Joey and Toby Tanenbaum.. The Bust of Pope Gregory XV is a marble portrait sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Executed in 1621, the work is one of three busts of the subject created by Bernini—the other two were bronze casts. The marble bust is on permanent display at the Art Gallery of Ontario. It was donated to the museum by Joey and Toby Tanenbaum.. 
Broadway Boogie Woogie. Author Name: Piet Mondrian. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/De_Stijl. . Broadway Boogie-Woogie is a painting by Piet Mondrian completed in 1943, shortly after he moved to New York in 1940. Compared to his earlier work, the canvas is divided into a much larger number of squares. Although he spent most of his career creating abstract work, this painting is inspired by clear real-world examples: the city grid of Manhattan, and the Broadway boogie woogie music to which Mondrian loved to dance. The painting was bought by the Brazilian sculptor Maria Martins for the price of $800 at the Valentine Gallery in New York City, after Martins and Mondrian both exhibited there in 1943. Martins later donated the painting to the Museum of Modern Art in New York City.. Broadway Boogie-Woogie is a painting by Piet Mondrian completed in 1943, shortly after he moved to New York in 1940. Compared to his earlier work, the canvas is divided into a much larger number of squares. Although he spent most of his career creating abstract work, this painting is inspired by clear real-world examples: the city grid of Manhattan, and the Broadway boogie woogie music to which Mondrian loved to dance. The painting was bought by the Brazilian sculptor Maria Martins for the price of $800 at the Valentine Gallery in New York City, after Martins and Mondrian both exhibited there in 1943. Martins later donated the painting to the Museum of Modern Art in New York City.. 
Obelisco a los Constituyentes. Author Name: José Luis Zorrilla de San Martín. . . The Obelisk of Montevideo, officially listed as the Obelisco a los Constituyentes de 1830, is a monument created by sculptor José Luis Zorrilla de San Martín (1891-1975). It is a three-sided obelisk made of granite, 40 metres tall with three bronze statues on its sides, representing "Law", "Liberty" and "Force". It has a hexagonal water fountain around it with six spheres on its outer circumference. It is located at the intersection of 18 de Julio and Artigas Boulevard avenues, in Montevideo, at the entrance of the Parque Batlle area. It was built in 1930 to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the first Constitution of Uruguay and is an homage to the participants of the General Assembly of the first Constitution.. The Obelisk of Montevideo, officially listed as the Obelisco a los Constituyentes de 1830, is a monument created by sculptor José Luis Zorrilla de San Martín (1891-1975). It is a three-sided obelisk made of granite, 40 metres tall with three bronze statues on its sides, representing "Law", "Liberty" and "Force". It has a hexagonal water fountain around it with six spheres on its outer circumference. It is located at the intersection of 18 de Julio and Artigas Boulevard avenues, in Montevideo, at the entrance of the Parque Batlle area. It was built in 1930 to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the first Constitution of Uruguay and is an homage to the participants of the General Assembly of the first Constitution. Six years later, a similar but larger monument was built at the intersection of 9 de Julio and Corrientes avenues in Buenos Aires, to celebrate the 400th anniversary of the first founding of the city.. 
Four Seasons. Author Name: Marc Chagall. . Author Movement: *. . Four Seasons is a mosaic by Marc Chagall that is located in Chase Tower Plaza in the Loop district of Chicago, Illinois. The mosaic was a gift to the City of Chicago by Frederick H. Prince (via the Prince Charitable Trusts); it is wrapped around four sides of a 70 feet (21 m) long, 14 feet (4.3 m) high, 10 feet (3.0 m) wide rectangular box, and was dedicated on September 27, 1974. It was renovated in 1994 and a protective glass canopy was installed.The mosaic was the subject of a 1974 documentary film, The Gift: Four Seasons Mosaic of Marc Chagall, directed by Chuck Olin.. Four Seasons is a mosaic by Marc Chagall that is located in Chase Tower Plaza in the Loop district of Chicago, Illinois. The mosaic was a gift to the City of Chicago by Frederick H. Prince (via the Prince Charitable Trusts); it is wrapped around four sides of a 70 feet (21 m) long, 14 feet (4.3 m) high, 10 feet (3.0 m) wide rectangular box, and was dedicated on September 27, 1974. It was renovated in 1994 and a protective glass canopy was installed. The mosaic was the subject of a 1974 documentary film, The Gift: Four Seasons Mosaic of Marc Chagall, directed by Chuck Olin.. 
Kiss II. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Kiss II is a 1962 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It formerly held the record for highest auction price for a Lichtenstein painting.In May 1990, Kiss II, sold for $6.0 million. In November 2002, Happy Tears surpassed Kiss II's Lichtenstein work record auction price, when it sold for $7.2 million.. Kiss II is a 1962 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It formerly held the record for highest auction price for a Lichtenstein painting. In May 1990, Kiss II, sold for $6.0 million. In November 2002, Happy Tears surpassed Kiss II's Lichtenstein work record auction price, when it sold for $7.2 million.. 
Street Scene in Montmartre: Le Moulin à Poivre. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . The Montmartre paintings are a group of works that Vincent van Gogh made in 1886 and 1887 of the Paris district of Montmartre while living there with his brother Theo. Rather than capture urban settings in Paris, van Gogh preferred pastoral scenes, such as Montmartre and Asnières in the northwest suburbs. Of the two years in Paris, the work from 1886 often has the dark, somber tones of his early works from the Netherlands and Brussels. By the spring of 1887 van Gogh embraced use of color and light and created his own brushstroke techniques based upon Impressionism and Pointillism. The works in the series provide examples of his work during that period of time and the progression he made as an artist.. The Montmartre paintings are a group of works that Vincent van Gogh made in 1886 and 1887 of the Paris district of Montmartre while living there with his brother Theo. Rather than capture urban settings in Paris, van Gogh preferred pastoral scenes, such as Montmartre and Asnières in the northwest suburbs. Of the two years in Paris, the work from 1886 often has the dark, somber tones of his early works from the Netherlands and Brussels. By the spring of 1887 van Gogh embraced use of color and light and created his own brushstroke techniques based upon Impressionism and Pointillism. The works in the series provide examples of his work during that period of time and the progression he made as an artist.. 
Brushstrokes in Flight. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Brushstrokes in Flight is a 1984 sculpture by Roy Lichtenstein, installed at the Port Columbus International Airport in Columbus, Ohio. It is part of the Brushstrokes series of artworks that includes several paintings and sculptures whose subject is the actions made with a house-painter's brush.. Brushstrokes in Flight is a 1984 sculpture by Roy Lichtenstein, installed at the Port Columbus International Airport in Columbus, Ohio. It is part of the Brushstrokes series of artworks that includes several paintings and sculptures whose subject is the actions made with a house-painter's brush.. 
The Titan's Goblet. Author Name: Thomas Cole. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Hudson_River_School. . The Titan's Goblet is an oil painting by the English-born American landscape artist Thomas Cole. Painted in 1833, it is perhaps the most enigmatic of Cole's allegorical or imaginary landscape scenes. It is a work that "defies full explanation", according to the Metropolitan Museum of Art. The Titan's Goblet has been called a "picture within a picture" and a "landscape within a landscape": the goblet stands on conventional terrain, but its inhabitants live along its rim in a world all their own. Vegetation covers the entire brim, broken only by two tiny buildings, a Greek temple and an Italian palace. The vast waters are dotted with sailing vessels. Where the water spills upon the ground below, grass and a more rudimentary civilization spring up.. The Titan's Goblet is an oil painting by the English-born American landscape artist Thomas Cole. Painted in 1833, it is perhaps the most enigmatic of Cole's allegorical or imaginary landscape scenes. It is a work that "defies full explanation", according to the Metropolitan Museum of Art. The Titan's Goblet has been called a "picture within a picture" and a "landscape within a landscape": the goblet stands on conventional terrain, but its inhabitants live along its rim in a world all their own. Vegetation covers the entire brim, broken only by two tiny buildings, a Greek temple and an Italian palace. The vast waters are dotted with sailing vessels. Where the water spills upon the ground below, grass and a more rudimentary civilization spring up.. 
Girl with a Pearl Earring. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . Girl with a Pearl Earring (Dutch: Meisje met de parel) is an oil painting by 17th-century Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer. It is a tronie of a girl with a headscarf and a pearl earring. The painting has been in the collection of the Mauritshuis in The Hague since 1902.. Girl with a Pearl Earring (Dutch: Meisje met de parel) is an oil painting by 17th-century Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer. It is a tronie of a girl with a headscarf and a pearl earring. The painting has been in the collection of the Mauritshuis in The Hague since 1902.. 
Canigiani Holy Family. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Canigiani Holy Family or Canigiani Madonna is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael from 1508. It is part of the permanent collection of the Alte Pinakothek in Munich, Germany.It shows mainly Elisabeth with baby John the Baptist, Joseph and Mary with infant baby Jesus (l.t.r.). These figures of the New Testament maintain eye contact.The oil painting was bought from the painter by the Canigiani family in Florence for their Home altar.. The Canigiani Holy Family or Canigiani Madonna is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael from 1508. It is part of the permanent collection of the Alte Pinakothek in Munich, Germany. It shows mainly Elisabeth with baby John the Baptist, Joseph and Mary with infant baby Jesus (l.t.r.). These figures of the New Testament maintain eye contact. The oil painting was bought from the painter by the Canigiani family in Florence for their Home altar.. 
Portrait of Pope Pius VII. Author Name: Jacques-Louis David. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . The Portrait of Pope Pius VII is an 1805 portrait of Pope Pius VII by the French painter Jacques-Louis David to thank the pope for assisting at the coronation of Napoleon I of France. Pope Pius appears in David's The Coronation of Napoleon, depicted as blessing the emperor, when in fact he was merely a spectator, assisting at the ceremony with a resigned expression throughout.. The Portrait of Pope Pius VII is an 1805 portrait of Pope Pius VII by the French painter Jacques-Louis David to thank the pope for assisting at the coronation of Napoleon I of France. Pope Pius appears in David's The Coronation of Napoleon, depicted as blessing the emperor, when in fact he was merely a spectator, assisting at the ceremony with a resigned expression throughout.. 
Desolation. Author Name: Llimona. . . Desolation is a 1907 sculpture by Josep Llimona in the collection of the National Art Museum of Catalonia in Barcelona.. Desolation is a 1907 sculpture by Josep Llimona in the collection of the National Art Museum of Catalonia in Barcelona.. 
Susanna and the Elders. Author Name: Tintoretto. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . Susanna and the Elders is a painting by Venetian painter Jacopo Robusti (1518–1594). Robusti, also known as Tintoretto or Il Furioso, for the energy and "fury" with which he painted, depicted both sacred and profane subjects in a period known as the Venetian “golden century”.Susanna and the Elders (c. 1555–56) depicts a scene from the biblical episode of Susanna, from the Book of Daniel.. Susanna and the Elders is a painting by Venetian painter Jacopo Robusti (1518–1594). Robusti, also known as Tintoretto or Il Furioso, for the energy and "fury" with which he painted, depicted both sacred and profane subjects in a period known as the Venetian “golden century”. Susanna and the Elders (c. 1555–56) depicts a scene from the biblical episode of Susanna, from the Book of Daniel. The painting shows Susanna, a young married woman, sitting on the edge of a small pool, preparing to take a bath. She is watched by two elderly men, acquaintances of her husband, who desire her. The lustful elders are depicted in the painting hiding behind a rose trellis in her garden. They are watching and spying on her, trying to find an opportunity to catch her alone in the garden. The story of Susanna and the elders was frequently depicted in art history. The painting is full of symbols. The objects beside the main figure included white pearls, silver jewelry, a silk shawl, and a silver jug. The painting is considered one of Tintoretto's "masterpieces".. 
The Circuit Rider. Author Name: Alexander Phimister Proctor. . . The Circuit Rider is a bronze sculpture by Alexander Phimister Proctor, located in Capitol Park, east of the Oregon State Capitol in Salem, Oregon, in the United States.. The Circuit Rider is a bronze sculpture by Alexander Phimister Proctor, located in Capitol Park, east of the Oregon State Capitol in Salem, Oregon, in the United States.. 
The Kitchen Maid. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Kitchen Maid (1651) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch painter Rembrandt.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Nationalmuseum.This painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1915, who wrote; "330. A YOUNG GIRL AT A WINDOW, IN FULL FACE. Sm. 506. ; Bode 365 ; Dut. 315 ; Wb. 440 ; B.-HdG. 397. She leans her right arm on the window-sill and rests her head on her left hand. She wears a dull red jacket. Her dark hair is combed back into a small golden-yellow cap. The loose chemisette is slightly open at the throat, showing a string of pearls and a little black ribbon hanging down on the bosom. Dark background ; the figure is lighted from above to the left. Half-length, life size. Formerly known as " La Crasseuse." Signed in the centre . The Kitchen Maid (1651) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch painter Rembrandt.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Nationalmuseum. This painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1915, who wrote; "330. A YOUNG GIRL AT A WINDOW, IN FULL FACE. Sm. 506. ; Bode 365 ; Dut. 315 ; Wb. 440 ; B.-HdG. 397. She leans her right arm on the window-sill and rests her head on her left hand. She wears a dull red jacket. Her dark hair is combed back into a small golden-yellow cap. The loose chemisette is slightly open at the throat, showing a string of pearls and a little black ribbon hanging down on the bosom. Dark background ; the figure is lighted from above to the left. Half-length, life size. Formerly known as " La Crasseuse." Signed in the centre at foot, "Rembrandt f. 1651 " ; canvas, 31 inches by 25 inches. Etched by L. Loewenstam. Mentioned by Bode, pp. 504, 606 ; by Dutuit, p. 40 ; by Michel, pp. 394, 568 [304-5,442]; by Roger de Piles, 1715 edition, p. 423 ; by Granberg, Inventaire Génerale, iii. No. 297. In the collection of Roger de Piles, Paris. In the collection of Duvivier, Paris. In the collection of the Comte d'Hoym, Paris. In the collection of De Morville, Paris. Sales. Angran de Fonspertuis, Paris, March 4, 1748, No. 435 (2001 francs, with 203, " Flora," Blondel de Gagny). Blondel de Gagny, Paris, December 10, 1776, No. 70 (6000 francs) ; it was then rounded at top and measured only 32 inches in height. Duc de Lavalliere, Paris, February 21, 1781 (5500 francs, with pendant, 467/7) ; see C. Blanc, ii. 43. In the collection of Gustavus III., King of Sweden. In the Stockholm National Museum, 1900 catalogue, No. 584." Other "Kitchen Maid" paintings by Rembrandt or his school are:. 
Wind Wand. Author Name: Len Lye. . . The Wind Wand is a 48-metre kinetic sculpture located in New Plymouth, New Zealand. The sculpture includes a 45-metre tube of red fibreglass, and was made to designs by artist Len Lye. To residents, it is one of the main icons of New Plymouth. Originally installed in December 1999 along with the Coastal Walkway, it had to be taken down within weeks. After repairs it was reinstalled in June 2001. The red fibreglass tube stands vertical in still air, but bends in the wind. The globe at its tip glows red at night. Due to its resemblance to a Snoo antenna, the Wind Wand has led to the unofficial re-naming of New Zealand to "Snoo Zealand".. The Wind Wand is a 48-metre kinetic sculpture located in New Plymouth, New Zealand. The sculpture includes a 45-metre tube of red fibreglass, and was made to designs by artist Len Lye. To residents, it is one of the main icons of New Plymouth. Originally installed in December 1999 along with the Coastal Walkway, it had to be taken down within weeks. After repairs it was reinstalled in June 2001. The red fibreglass tube stands vertical in still air, but bends in the wind. The globe at its tip glows red at night. Due to its resemblance to a Snoo antenna, the Wind Wand has led to the unofficial re-naming of New Zealand to "Snoo Zealand".. 
Maestà. Author Name: Duccio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Gothic_art. . The Maestà, or Maestà of Duccio is an altarpiece composed of many individual paintings commissioned by the city of Siena in 1308 from the artist Duccio di Buoninsegna. The front panels make up a large enthroned Madonna and Child with saints and angels, and a predella of the Childhood of Christ with prophets. The reverse has the rest of a combined cycle of the Life of the Virgin and the Life of Christ in a total of forty-three small scenes; several panels are now dispersed or lost. The base of the panel has an inscription that reads (in translation): "Holy Mother of God, be thou the cause of peace for Siena and life to Duccio because he painted thee thus."  Though it took a generation for its effect truly to be felt, Duccio's Maestà set Italian painting on a course leading away from the hie. The Maestà, or Maestà of Duccio is an altarpiece composed of many individual paintings commissioned by the city of Siena in 1308 from the artist Duccio di Buoninsegna. The front panels make up a large enthroned Madonna and Child with saints and angels, and a predella of the Childhood of Christ with prophets. The reverse has the rest of a combined cycle of the Life of the Virgin and the Life of Christ in a total of forty-three small scenes; several panels are now dispersed or lost. The base of the panel has an inscription that reads (in translation): "Holy Mother of God, be thou the cause of peace for Siena and life to Duccio because he painted thee thus." Though it took a generation for its effect truly to be felt, Duccio's Maestà set Italian painting on a course leading away from the hieratic representations of Byzantine art towards more direct presentations of reality.. 
Nymphs and Satyr. Author Name: William-Adolphe Bouguereau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Nymphs and Satyr (French: Nymphes et un satyre) is a painting, oil on canvas, created by artist William-Adolphe Bouguereau in 1873.Nymphs and Satyr was exhibited in Paris in 1873, a year before the Impressionists mounted their first exhibition. Purchased by the American art collector and speculator John Wolfe, it was displayed in his mansion for many years alongside other high-style French academic paintings. It was sold at auction in 1888, after which the painting was displayed in the bar of the Hoffman House Hotel, New York City until 1901, when it was bought and stored in a warehouse, the buyer hoping to keep its 'offensive' content from the public. Robert Sterling Clark discovered the piece in storage and acquired it in 1942. The piece is currently on display at the Clark Art Institute. Nymphs and Satyr (French: Nymphes et un satyre) is a painting, oil on canvas, created by artist William-Adolphe Bouguereau in 1873. Nymphs and Satyr was exhibited in Paris in 1873, a year before the Impressionists mounted their first exhibition. Purchased by the American art collector and speculator John Wolfe, it was displayed in his mansion for many years alongside other high-style French academic paintings. It was sold at auction in 1888, after which the painting was displayed in the bar of the Hoffman House Hotel, New York City until 1901, when it was bought and stored in a warehouse, the buyer hoping to keep its 'offensive' content from the public. Robert Sterling Clark discovered the piece in storage and acquired it in 1942. The piece is currently on display at the Clark Art Institute located in Williamstown, Massachusetts. According to the Clark Institute, in the painting "a group of nymphs have been surprised, while bathing in a secluded pond, by a lascivious satyr. Some of the nymphs have retreated into the shadows on the right; others, braver than their friends, are trying to dampen the satyr's ardor by pulling him into the cold water -- one of the satyr's hooves is already wet and he clearly wants to go no further. Bouguereau’s working methods were traditional; he made a number of sketches and drawings of carefully posed human figures in complicated interconnected poses, linking them together in this wonderfully rhythmical composition." In the exhibition of 1873 it was displayed along with a verse from the ancient Roman poet, Publius Statius: “Conscious of his shaggy hide and from childhood untaught to swim, he dares not trust himself to deep waters.” The painting, the largest and one of the most beloved of the Clark collection, was cleaned prior to March 10, 2012 with the help of a grant from the Parnassus Foundation, courtesy of Jane and Raphael Bernstein.. 
William A. Starke Memorial. Author Name: Robert Ingersoll Aitken. . . William A. Starke Memorial is a public art work by American artist Robert Ingersoll Aitken, located in the Forest Home Cemetery on the south side of Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The artwork is a bronze figure depicting a seated angel. It is located in Section 33 of the cemetery at 2405 W. Forest Home Ave.The work commemorates William Starke, a local business man involved with the C.H. Starke Bridge Company, the Christopher Steamship Company, and the Sheriff Manufacturing Company.. William A. Starke Memorial is a public art work by American artist Robert Ingersoll Aitken, located in the Forest Home Cemetery on the south side of Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The artwork is a bronze figure depicting a seated angel. It is located in Section 33 of the cemetery at 2405 W. Forest Home Ave. The work commemorates William Starke, a local business man involved with the C.H. Starke Bridge Company, the Christopher Steamship Company, and the Sheriff Manufacturing Company.. 
The Dancing Couple. Author Name: Jan Steen. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_Golden_Age_painting. . The Dancing Couple is a 1663 oil painting by Jan Steen. It depicts a chaotic party with a dancing couple in the center. The work is currently in the Widener Collection of the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C... The Dancing Couple is a 1663 oil painting by Jan Steen. It depicts a chaotic party with a dancing couple in the center. The work is currently in the Widener Collection of the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C... 
The Meeting between Abraham and Melchizedek. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Meeting between Abraham and Melchizedek is a 1616-17 painting by Peter Paul Rubens, showing the meeting between Abraham and Melchizedek as recounted in the Genesis 14. It measures 204 cm by 250 cm and is now in the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Caen.. The Meeting between Abraham and Melchizedek is a 1616-17 painting by Peter Paul Rubens, showing the meeting between Abraham and Melchizedek as recounted in the Genesis 14. It measures 204 cm by 250 cm and is now in the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Caen. The painting's origins are unknown. It belonged to the Du Bois family when, at the end of 1749, it was bought for William VIII, Landgrave of Hesse-Kassel by an art dealer in Antwerp for 6,000 florins. From that date onwards it was considered as a pendant to The Crowning of the Virtuous Hero in the inventory of the Kassel gallery. Both paintings were confiscated in 1806 by Vivant Denon and sent to Paris. Meeting was retained for the museum at Caen in 1811. After the fall of Napoleon, the Elector of Hesse sent a delegation in 1815 to recover it, though Élouis (curator of the Caen museum) pretended to be unable to find it. The Germans left disappointed, but continued trying to reclaim the painting until 1830.. 
Landscape with Snow. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Landscape with Snow is a painting made by Vincent van Gogh in 1888, believed to be one of the first paintings that he made in Arles. It is one of at least ten oil and watercolor paintings that Van Gogh made of a snowy landscape from 1882 to 1889. The painting reflects the La Crau plains set against Montmajour and hills along the horizon.. Landscape with Snow is a painting made by Vincent van Gogh in 1888, believed to be one of the first paintings that he made in Arles. It is one of at least ten oil and watercolor paintings that Van Gogh made of a snowy landscape from 1882 to 1889. The painting reflects the La Crau plains set against Montmajour and hills along the horizon.. 
Oh, Jeff...I Love You, Too...But.... Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Oh, Jeff...I Love You, Too...But... (sometimes Oh, Jeff) is a 1964 oil and magna on canvas painting by Roy Lichtenstein. Like many of Lichtenstein's works its title comes from the speech balloon in the painting.The painting was sold for $ 210,000 (US$603,114 in 2016 dollars) on May 15, 1980 at Sotheby's, New York. At the time, the work was part of the Abrams family collection. As of February 3, 1994, the Los Angeles Times reported that it was part of the Stefan T. Edlis Collection.. Oh, Jeff...I Love You, Too...But... (sometimes Oh, Jeff) is a 1964 oil and magna on canvas painting by Roy Lichtenstein. Like many of Lichtenstein's works its title comes from the speech balloon in the painting. Although many sources, such as the Encyclopedia of Art, describe Whaam! and Drowning Girl as Lichtenstein's most famous works, artist Vian Shamounki Borchert believes it is this piece, calling it his Mona Lisa. The Daily Mail listed it along with Whaam! and Drowning Girl as one of his most famous at the time of its 2013 Retrospective at the Tate Modern. Borchert notes that this painting captures "the magic" of its "anguished and yes [sic] beautiful blue eyed, blond hair, full lips" female subject while presenting "sad eyes that seem to give in to what seems to be a doomed love affair". Measuring 121.9 cm × 121.9 cm (48 in × 48 in), Oh, Jeff...I Love You, Too...But... is among the most famous of his early romance comic derivative works from the period when he was adapting cartoons and advertisements into his style via Ben-Day dots. The work is said to depict the classic romance-comic story line of temporary adversity. Lichtenstein's sketch for this was done in graphite and colored pencils on paper in a 4 3/4 x 4 3/4 inches (12.1 x 12.1 cm) scale. In the early 1960s, Lichtenstein produced several "fantasy drama" paintings of women in love affairs with domineering men causing women to be miserable, such as Drowning Girl, Hopeless and In the Car. These works served as prelude to 1964 paintings of innocent "girls next door" in a variety of tenuous emotional states such as in Oh, Jeff...I Love You, Too...But.... Using only a single frame from its source, Oh, Jeff...I Love You, Too...But...'s graphics are quite indicative of frustration, but the text in the speech balloon augment the romantic context and the emotional discord. After 1963, Lichtenstein's comics-based women "...look hard, crisp, brittle, and uniformly modish in appearance, as if they all came out of the same pot of makeup." This particular example is one of several that is cropped so closely that the hair flows beyond the edges of the canvas. This was painted at the apex of Lichtenstein's use of enlarged dots, cropping and magnification of the original source. The tragic situations of his subjects makes his works a popular draw at museums. The painting was sold for $ 210,000 (US$603,114 in 2016 dollars) on May 15, 1980 at Sotheby's, New York. At the time, the work was part of the Abrams family collection. As of February 3, 1994, the Los Angeles Times reported that it was part of the Stefan T. Edlis Collection.. 
Le Port. Author Name: Jean Metzinger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Le Port, also known as The Harbor, The Port or simply Marine, is a painting by the French artist Jean Metzinger. The work was exhibited in the spring of 1912 at the Salon des Indépendants in Paris, and at the Salon de La Section d'Or, Galerie La Boétie, October 1912, Paris, (no. 117 of the catalogue, entitled Marine, collection Mme L. Ricou). Le Port was reproduced a few months later in the first major text on Cubism entitled Du "Cubisme", written in 1912 by Jean Metzinger and Albert Gleizes, published by Eugène Figuière Editeurs the same year. The Harbor was subsequently reproduced in The Cubist Painters, Aesthetic Meditations (Les Peintres cubistes, Méditations Esthétiques), written by Guillaume Apollinaire, published by Figuière in 1913 (collection Mme L. Ricou). At the Salon des Indépe. Le Port, also known as The Harbor, The Port or simply Marine, is a painting by the French artist Jean Metzinger. The work was exhibited in the spring of 1912 at the Salon des Indépendants in Paris, and at the Salon de La Section d'Or, Galerie La Boétie, October 1912, Paris, (no. 117 of the catalogue, entitled Marine, collection Mme L. Ricou). Le Port was reproduced a few months later in the first major text on Cubism entitled Du "Cubisme", written in 1912 by Jean Metzinger and Albert Gleizes, published by Eugène Figuière Editeurs the same year. The Harbor was subsequently reproduced in The Cubist Painters, Aesthetic Meditations (Les Peintres cubistes, Méditations Esthétiques), written by Guillaume Apollinaire, published by Figuière in 1913 (collection Mme L. Ricou). At the Salon des Indépendants of 1912, Apollinaire had noticed the classical Ingresque qualities of Metzinger's Le Port, and suggested that it deserved to be hung in the Musée du Luxembourg's modern art collection. The dimensions and current whereabouts of Le Port are unknown.. 
Lamentation of Christ. Author Name: Albrecht Dürer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Lamentation of Christ (also known as Glimm Lamentation) is an oil-on-panel painting by German Renaissance artist Albrecht Dürer, executed around 1500 and currently housed in the Alte Pinakothek of Munich, Germany.The work was commissioned by goldsmith Jakob Glimm as a memorial of his first wife, Margaret Holzmann, who a died in 1500. The removal of later re-painting in 1924 showed the original figures of the donors (Glimm and his three sons) and of the dead woman, depicted in far smaller proportions than the religious characters.. Lamentation of Christ (also known as Glimm Lamentation) is an oil-on-panel painting by German Renaissance artist Albrecht Dürer, executed around 1500 and currently housed in the Alte Pinakothek of Munich, Germany. The work was commissioned by goldsmith Jakob Glimm as a memorial of his first wife, Margaret Holzmann, who a died in 1500. The removal of later re-painting in 1924 showed the original figures of the donors (Glimm and his three sons) and of the dead woman, depicted in far smaller proportions than the religious characters.. 
Portrait of Abraham de Potter. Author Name: Carel Fabritius. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Delft_School_(painting). . Portrait of Abraham de Potter, Amsterdam Silk Merchant (Dutch: Portret van Abraham de Potter, zijdelakenkoopman in Amsterdam) is a 1649 portrait painting of silk merchant Abraham de Potter by Carel Fabritius. The oil painting on canvas is 68.5 by 57 cm (27.0 by 22 in). The work has been in the collection of the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam since 1892.. Portrait of Abraham de Potter, Amsterdam Silk Merchant (Dutch: Portret van Abraham de Potter, zijdelakenkoopman in Amsterdam) is a 1649 portrait painting of silk merchant Abraham de Potter by Carel Fabritius. The oil painting on canvas is 68.5 by 57 cm (27.0 by 22 in). The work has been in the collection of the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam since 1892.. 
Trophy Hypertrophied. Author Name: Max Ernst. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dada. . Trophy, Hypertrophied (1919) is a work of art by the German dadaist/surrealist Max Ernst. This is one of Ernst’s earliest known works. It was created through a photomechanical process called line-block printing, rarely used in printmaking, to which drawing was added. It depicts a complex mechanical apparatus with celestial shapes as gears. Ernst created a similar piece the same year titled Farewell My Beautiful Land of Mary Laurencen. Help! Help!. Trophy, Hypertrophied (1919) is a work of art by the German dadaist/surrealist Max Ernst. This is one of Ernst’s earliest known works. It was created through a photomechanical process called line-block printing, rarely used in printmaking, to which drawing was added. It depicts a complex mechanical apparatus with celestial shapes as gears. Ernst created a similar piece the same year titled Farewell My Beautiful Land of Mary Laurencen. Help! Help!. 
The School of Athens. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The School of Athens, or Scuola di Atene in Italian, is one of the most famous frescoes by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael. It was painted between 1509 and 1511 as a part of Raphael's commission to decorate the rooms now known as the Stanze di Raffaello, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. The Stanza della Segnatura was the first of the rooms to be decorated, and The School of Athens, representing Philosophy, was probably the second painting to be finished there, after La Disputa (Theology) on the opposite wall, and the Parnassus (Literature). The picture has long been seen as "Raphael's masterpiece and the perfect embodiment of the classical spirit of the Renaissance.. The School of Athens, or Scuola di Atene in Italian, is one of the most famous frescoes by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael. It was painted between 1509 and 1511 as a part of Raphael's commission to decorate the rooms now known as the Stanze di Raffaello, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. The Stanza della Segnatura was the first of the rooms to be decorated, and The School of Athens, representing Philosophy, was probably the second painting to be finished there, after La Disputa (Theology) on the opposite wall, and the Parnassus (Literature). The picture has long been seen as "Raphael's masterpiece and the perfect embodiment of the classical spirit of the Renaissance.. 
The Open Window. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . The Open Window, also known as Open Window, Collioure, is a painting by Henri Matisse. The work, an oil on canvas, was painted in 1905 and exhibited at the Salon d'Automne in Paris the same year. It was bequeathed in 1998 by the estate of Mrs. John Hay Whitney to the National Gallery of Art, Washington, DC... The Open Window, also known as Open Window, Collioure, is a painting by Henri Matisse. The work, an oil on canvas, was painted in 1905 and exhibited at the Salon d'Automne in Paris the same year. It was bequeathed in 1998 by the estate of Mrs. John Hay Whitney to the National Gallery of Art, Washington, DC.. It is an example of the Fauvist style of painting that Matisse became famous for, and for which he was a leader, roughly between the years 1900–1909. The Open Window depicts the view out the window of his apartment in Collioure, on the Southern coast of France. We see sailboats on the water, as viewed from Matisse's hotel window overlooking the harbor. He returned frequently to the theme of the open window in Paris and especially during the years in Nice and Etretat, and in his final years, particularly during the late 1940s.. 
Summer Evening on Skagen's Southern Beach. Author Name: P.S. Krøyer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Summer Evening on Skagen's Southern Beach (Danish: Sommeraften på Skagen Sønderstrand) is a painting by Peder Severin Krøyer (1851–1909), from 1893, and is counted as one of his masterpieces. Krøyer was one of the most notable members of the Danish artistic community known as the Skagen Painters. The works of Krøyer often emphasise the special effects of the Skagen light, with several memorable works depicting beach scenes.. Summer Evening on Skagen's Southern Beach (Danish: Sommeraften på Skagen Sønderstrand) is a painting by Peder Severin Krøyer (1851–1909), from 1893, and is counted as one of his masterpieces. Krøyer was one of the most notable members of the Danish artistic community known as the Skagen Painters. The works of Krøyer often emphasise the special effects of the Skagen light, with several memorable works depicting beach scenes.. 
The Baptism of Christ. Author Name: Piero della Francesca. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Baptism of Christ is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Piero della Francesca, finished around 1448–50. It is housed in the National Gallery, London.The panel was commissioned presumably some time about 1440 by the Camaldolese Monastery of Sansepolcro in Tuscany, originally part of a triptych. Its dating to Piero della Francesca's early career is evidenced by the strong relationship with the "light painting" of his master, Domenico Veneziano.. The Baptism of Christ is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Piero della Francesca, finished around 1448–50. It is housed in the National Gallery, London. The panel was commissioned presumably some time about 1440 by the Camaldolese Monastery of Sansepolcro in Tuscany, originally part of a triptych. Its dating to Piero della Francesca's early career is evidenced by the strong relationship with the "light painting" of his master, Domenico Veneziano. It portrays Christ being baptised by John, his head surmounted by a dove representing the Holy Spirit. Christ, John's hand, the bird and the bowl form an axis which divides the painting in two symmetrical parts. A second division is created by the tree on the left, which instead divides it according to the golden ratio. Behind John, a man in white briefs, his feet already in the water, is struggling to get out of his undershirt. The three angels on the left wear different clothes and, in a break from traditional iconography, are not supporting Christ's garments, but are holding each other's hands, in a sort of way. This could be an allusion to the contemporary Council of Florence (1431–45), whose goal was the unification of the Western and Eastern Churches. The Camaldolese monk and theologian, St. Ambrose Traversari (+1439), who had been Prior General of the Camaladolese congregation, had been a strong supporter of the union. Such symbolism is also suggested by the presence, behind the neophyte on the right, of figures dressed in an oriental fashion. Piero della Francesca was renowned in his times as an authority on perspective and geometry: his attention to the theme is shown by John's arm and leg, which form two angles of the same size.. 
Wedding dress of Lady Diana Spencer. Author Name: David Emanuel. . . The wedding dress of Lady Diana Spencer was worn by Lady Diana Spencer at her wedding to Charles, Prince of Wales, on 29 July 1981 at St Paul's Cathedral. Diana wore an ivory silk taffeta and antique lace gown, with a 25-foot (7.62 m) train, valued then at £9000. It became one of the most famous dresses in the world, and was considered one of the most closely guarded secrets in fashion history.. The wedding dress of Lady Diana Spencer was worn by Lady Diana Spencer at her wedding to Charles, Prince of Wales, on 29 July 1981 at St Paul's Cathedral. Diana wore an ivory silk taffeta and antique lace gown, with a 25-foot (7.62 m) train, valued then at £9000. It became one of the most famous dresses in the world, and was considered one of the most closely guarded secrets in fashion history.. 
Beach in Pourville. Author Name: Claude Monet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Beach in Pourville (title in French: La plage à Pourville, soleil couchant) is a painting by French artist Claude Monet. It was painted in 1882, one of a series of oil-on-canvas works made by Monet that year in the small seaside resort of Pourville-sur-Mer (now part of the commune of Hautot-sur-Mer), near Dieppe in northern France. Monet is considered one of the most important members of the group of painters identified as the Impressionists. The painting was bought by the National Museum, Poznań, Poland in 1906 and exhibited in the display of their collection.. Beach in Pourville (title in French: La plage à Pourville, soleil couchant) is a painting by French artist Claude Monet. It was painted in 1882, one of a series of oil-on-canvas works made by Monet that year in the small seaside resort of Pourville-sur-Mer (now part of the commune of Hautot-sur-Mer), near Dieppe in northern France. Monet is considered one of the most important members of the group of painters identified as the Impressionists. The painting was bought by the National Museum, Poznań, Poland in 1906 and exhibited in the display of their collection.. 
The Siren. Author Name: John William Waterhouse. . . The Siren is a painting by John William Waterhouse. The painting depicts a siren sitting at the edge of a cliff, lyre in hand, staring down at a shipwrecked sailor floating in water, who in turn is staring up at her.According to the William Waterhouse's website, this picture was painted in 1900 and is now part of a private collection. The estimated sales price for the painting in 2003 was one million pounds.- Charlotte Lester.. The Siren is a painting by John William Waterhouse. The painting depicts a siren sitting at the edge of a cliff, lyre in hand, staring down at a shipwrecked sailor floating in water, who in turn is staring up at her. According to the William Waterhouse's website, this picture was painted in 1900 and is now part of a private collection. The estimated sales price for the painting in 2003 was one million pounds. "The SirenHe listened in thrall to the song of the siren,Her voice like a star as it flew through the air.He drowned in her eyes as she called him to follow,And likened the sun to the gold of her hair. She swept up her arms and held him close to her,Her soft lips caressing the lines on his brow.He could not resist her, a magic had trapped him,And nothing could save him, for she had him now. She pulled him down with her into the clear water,He gasped as death started the grip on his soul.His life ebbed away as she dragged him still further,And laughed when she saw she'd accomplished her goal." - Charlotte Lester.. 
Monument of Józef Piłsudski. Author Name: Goslawski, Jozef. . . The Józef Piłsudski monument in Turek is a notable Turek statue, located in The Żermina Składkowska's Park. The monument was designed by Józef Gosławski, during artist's stay in Italy. The monument was designed for the competition organized by Adam Mickiewicz Association in Rome in 1936. The cast of this sculpture was ordered by municipalities of Turek and it is located in the city since 1990.. The Józef Piłsudski monument in Turek is a notable Turek statue, located in The Żermina Składkowska's Park. The monument was designed by Józef Gosławski, during artist's stay in Italy. The monument was designed for the competition organized by Adam Mickiewicz Association in Rome in 1936. The cast of this sculpture was ordered by municipalities of Turek and it is located in the city since 1990. The monument depicts a bust of Józef Piłsudski in his uniform. The following inscription is located on the pedestal: MARSHAL JÓZEF PIŁSUDSKI 1867-1935 HONORARY CITIZEN OF TUREK CITY (Polish: MARSZAŁEK JÓZEF PIŁSUDSKI 1867-1935 HONOROWY OBYWATEL MIASTA TURKU).. 
Work. Author Name: Ford Madox Brown. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pre-Raphaelite_Brotherhood. . Work (1852–1865) is a painting by Ford Madox Brown that is generally considered to be his most important achievement. It exists in two versions. The painting attempts to portray, both literally and analytically, the totality of the Victorian social system and the transition from a rural to an urban economy. Brown began the painting in 1852 and completed it in 1865, when he set up a special exhibition to showcase it along with several of his other works. He wrote a detailed catalogue explaining the significance of the picture.. Work (1852–1865) is a painting by Ford Madox Brown that is generally considered to be his most important achievement. It exists in two versions. The painting attempts to portray, both literally and analytically, the totality of the Victorian social system and the transition from a rural to an urban economy. Brown began the painting in 1852 and completed it in 1865, when he set up a special exhibition to showcase it along with several of his other works. He wrote a detailed catalogue explaining the significance of the picture. The painting was commissioned by Thomas Plint, a well-known collector of Pre-Raphaelite art, who died before its completion. A second version, smaller at 684 x 990 mm, was commissioned in 1859 and completed in 1863. This is now in the Birmingham Museum and Art Gallery. It is closely similar, though for the lady with a blue parasol the face of Maria Leathart, the commissioner's wife, replaces that of Mrs Brown in the Manchester version. The picture depicts a group of so-called "navvies" digging up the road to build an underground tunnel. It is typically assumed that this was part of the extensions of London's sewerage system, which were being undertaken to deal with the threat of typhus and cholera. The workers are in the centre of the painting. On either side of them are individuals who are either unemployed or represent the leisured classes. Behind the workers are two wealthy figures on horseback, whose progress along the road has been halted by the excavations. The painting also portrays an election campaign, evidenced by posters and people carrying sandwich boards with the name of the candidate "Bobus". A poster also draws attention to the potential presence of a burglar. The setting is an accurate depiction of The Mount on Heath Street in Hampstead, London, where a side road rises up above the main road and runs alongside it. Brown made a detailed study of the location in 1852.. 
L'Asie. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . L'Asie (English title: Asia) is a painting by Henri Matisse. It is an oil on canvas painting from 1946.The painting is in the collection of and on public display at the Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth, Texas (USA).. L'Asie (English title: Asia) is a painting by Henri Matisse. It is an oil on canvas painting from 1946. The painting is in the collection of and on public display at the Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth, Texas (USA).. 
Zawieszenie dzwonu Zygmunta. Author Name: Jan Matejko. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/History_painting. . Zawieszenie dzwonu Zygmunta (Polish: Zawieszenie dzwonu Zygmunta na wieży katedry w roku 1521 w Krakowie, English: The Hanging of the Sigismund bell at the Cathedral Tower in 1521 in Kraków) is a painting by Jan Matejko finished in 1874. It depicts the installation of the Sigismund Bell in the Wawel Cathedral in Kraków in 1521. The bell was installed in the Sigismund Tower and rung for the first time on 13 July 1521. The bell is considered to be one of the national symbols of Poland. This painting is one of a number of historical paintings by Matejko. It shows a crowd of people, with a number of identifiable figures of historical importance. It conveys the Golden Era of the Polish Renaissance, and the power of the Kingdom of Poland.. Zawieszenie dzwonu Zygmunta (Polish: Zawieszenie dzwonu Zygmunta na wieży katedry w roku 1521 w Krakowie, English: The Hanging of the Sigismund bell at the Cathedral Tower in 1521 in Kraków) is a painting by Jan Matejko finished in 1874. It depicts the installation of the Sigismund Bell in the Wawel Cathedral in Kraków in 1521. The bell was installed in the Sigismund Tower and rung for the first time on 13 July 1521. The bell is considered to be one of the national symbols of Poland. This painting is one of a number of historical paintings by Matejko. It shows a crowd of people, with a number of identifiable figures of historical importance. It conveys the Golden Era of the Polish Renaissance, and the power of the Kingdom of Poland. There are several alternative names for the painting. They include The consecrating of the Sigismund bell... (Poświęcenie dzwonu Zygmunta...), as proposed by Mieczysław Treter, The raising of the Sigismund bell..., King Sigismund's Bell, or just Sigismund Bell (Dzwon Zygmunta).. 
São Francisco. Author Name: Nuno Gonçalves. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Portuguese_Renaissance. . São Francisco (English: Saint Francis) is a painting by Portuguese Renaissance artist Nuno Gonçalves. It is held at the National Museum of Ancient Art, in Lisbon.. São Francisco (English: Saint Francis) is a painting by Portuguese Renaissance artist Nuno Gonçalves. It is held at the National Museum of Ancient Art, in Lisbon.. 
Congress Voting Independence. Author Name: Pine, Robert Edge. . . Congress Voting Independence is a painting by Robert Edge Pine showing the interior of Independence Hall, Philadelphia, and contains the portraits of most of the signers of the United States Declaration of Independence. The artist worked on the painting from 1784 until his death in 1788. The painting is unfinished. It currently is held in Independence Hall, Philadelphia.. Congress Voting Independence is a painting by Robert Edge Pine showing the interior of Independence Hall, Philadelphia, and contains the portraits of most of the signers of the United States Declaration of Independence. The artist worked on the painting from 1784 until his death in 1788. The painting is unfinished. It currently is held in Independence Hall, Philadelphia.. 
Baithers: Two Nudes in an Exotic Landscape. Author Name: Jean Metzinger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Baigneuses: Deux nus dans un jardin exotique (also called Bathers: Two Nudes in an Exotic Landscape and Bañistas: dos desnudos en un paisaje exótico) is an oil painting created circa 1905-1906 by the French artist and theorist Jean Metzinger (1883–1956). Two Nudes in an Exotic Landscape is a Proto-Cubist work executed in a highly personal Divisionist style during the height of the Fauve period. The painting is now in the Carmen Thyssen-Bornemisza Collection, Spain (Colección Carmen Thyssen-Bornemisza).. Baigneuses: Deux nus dans un jardin exotique (also called Bathers: Two Nudes in an Exotic Landscape and Bañistas: dos desnudos en un paisaje exótico) is an oil painting created circa 1905-1906 by the French artist and theorist Jean Metzinger (1883–1956). Two Nudes in an Exotic Landscape is a Proto-Cubist work executed in a highly personal Divisionist style during the height of the Fauve period. The painting is now in the Carmen Thyssen-Bornemisza Collection, Spain (Colección Carmen Thyssen-Bornemisza).. 
Confidant from the Batlló House. Author Name: Antoni Gaudí. . . The Confidant from Casa Batlló, also known as the Double Sofa or Banc de dues places (Two-seater bench), is a furniture piece designed by Antoni Gaudí. Originally designed for the dining room of Casa Batlló on Barcelona's Passeig de Gràcia, the chair is currently exhibited in the Modern Art collection of the Museu Nacional d'Art de Catalunya and at Casa Museu Gaudí (Gaudí House Museum) in Barcelona. Replicas are displayed at the Gaudí-designed Casa Batlló and Casa Milà (La Pedrera).. The Confidant from Casa Batlló, also known as the Double Sofa or Banc de dues places (Two-seater bench), is a furniture piece designed by Antoni Gaudí. Originally designed for the dining room of Casa Batlló on Barcelona's Passeig de Gràcia, the chair is currently exhibited in the Modern Art collection of the Museu Nacional d'Art de Catalunya and at Casa Museu Gaudí (Gaudí House Museum) in Barcelona. Replicas are displayed at the Gaudí-designed Casa Batlló and Casa Milà (La Pedrera).. 
Cimabue's Celebrated Madonna. Author Name: (PRA). . Author Movement: Academicism, Neoclassicism and British Aestheticism http://ateneum.fi/en/frederic-leighton. . Cimabue's Celebrated Madonna, originally called Cimabue's [Celebrated] Madonna [is] Carried in Procession through the Streets of Florence, is an oil painting by English artist Frederic Leighton. Measuring more than two metres tall and more than five metres wide, the canvas was painted by Leighton from 1853 to 1855 in Rome as his first major work. Since 1988 it has been displayed in the National Gallery, London, on long-term loan from the Royal Collection. It is hung prominently, high above the main vestibule, directly beyond the entrance to the gallery.. Cimabue's Celebrated Madonna, originally called Cimabue's [Celebrated] Madonna [is] Carried in Procession through the Streets of Florence, is an oil painting by English artist Frederic Leighton. Measuring more than two metres tall and more than five metres wide, the canvas was painted by Leighton from 1853 to 1855 in Rome as his first major work. Since 1988 it has been displayed in the National Gallery, London, on long-term loan from the Royal Collection. It is hung prominently, high above the main vestibule, directly beyond the entrance to the gallery. Leighton House has an oil sketch for the painting, and several preparatory drawings.. 
Self-Portrait at the Age of 34. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Self-Portrait at the Age of 34 is a self-portrait by Rembrandt, dating to 1640 and now in the National Gallery, London. The painting is influenced by the portrait painting tradition of Raphael's Portrait of Baldassare Castiglione that is hosted in the Louvre and Titian's Portrait of Gerolamo Barbarigo in the National Gallery, possibly because he wanted place himself among the great 'Old Masters'. The artist is depicted himself at the height of his career, richly dressed and self-secure.. Self-Portrait at the Age of 34 is a self-portrait by Rembrandt, dating to 1640 and now in the National Gallery, London. The painting is influenced by the portrait painting tradition of Raphael's Portrait of Baldassare Castiglione that is hosted in the Louvre and Titian's Portrait of Gerolamo Barbarigo in the National Gallery, possibly because he wanted place himself among the great 'Old Masters'. The artist is depicted himself at the height of his career, richly dressed and self-secure.. 
Portrait of Lorenzo Cybo. Author Name: Parmigianino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . Portrait of Lorenzo Cybo (1524) is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance artist Parmigianino. It is housed in the Statens Museum for Kunst, Copenhagen, Denmark.. Portrait of Lorenzo Cybo (1524) is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance artist Parmigianino. It is housed in the Statens Museum for Kunst, Copenhagen, Denmark.. 
Cows in the Meadow. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Cows in the Meadow is an oil painting created in 1883 by Vincent van Gogh. The painting is known only by a very poor photograph.. Cows in the Meadow is an oil painting created in 1883 by Vincent van Gogh. The painting is known only by a very poor photograph.. 
General Maister Monument. Author Name: Jakov Brdar. . . The General Maister Monument (Slovene: Spomenik generala Maistra) is a bronze equestrian statue of Rudolf Maister that stands in a park at Liberation Front Square (Trg Osvobodilne fronte) in front of the Ljubljana railway station. It was created in 1999 by Jakov Brdar as a tribute of the City of Ljubljana to Maister, the first Slovene major general, who secured for Slovenia the city of Maribor.. The General Maister Monument (Slovene: Spomenik generala Maistra) is a bronze equestrian statue of Rudolf Maister that stands in a park at Liberation Front Square (Trg Osvobodilne fronte) in front of the Ljubljana railway station. It was created in 1999 by Jakov Brdar as a tribute of the City of Ljubljana to Maister, the first Slovene major general, who secured for Slovenia the city of Maribor.. 
Girl Reading a Letter at an Open Window. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . Girl Reading a Letter at an Open Window is an oil painting by Dutch Baroque painter Johannes Vermeer. Completed in approximately 1657–1659, the well-preserved painting is on display at the Gemäldegalerie in Dresden. For many years, the attribution of the painting—which features a young Dutch woman reading a letter before an open window—was lost, with first Rembrandt and then Pieter de Hooch being credited for the work before it was properly identified in 1880. After World War II, the painting was briefly in possession of the Soviet Union.. Girl Reading a Letter at an Open Window is an oil painting by Dutch Baroque painter Johannes Vermeer. Completed in approximately 1657–1659, the well-preserved painting is on display at the Gemäldegalerie in Dresden. For many years, the attribution of the painting—which features a young Dutch woman reading a letter before an open window—was lost, with first Rembrandt and then Pieter de Hooch being credited for the work before it was properly identified in 1880. After World War II, the painting was briefly in possession of the Soviet Union.. 
The Madonna of the Pinks. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Madonna of the Pinks (c. 1506–1507, Italian: La Madonna dei garofani) is an early devotional painting usually attributed to Italian Renaissance master Raphael. It is painted in oils on fruitwood and now hangs in the National Gallery, London.. The Madonna of the Pinks (c. 1506–1507, Italian: La Madonna dei garofani) is an early devotional painting usually attributed to Italian Renaissance master Raphael. It is painted in oils on fruitwood and now hangs in the National Gallery, London.. 
Soft Construction with Boiled Beans. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Soft Construction with Boiled Beans (Premonition of Civil War) (1936) is a painting by Spanish Surrealist Salvador Dalí. Dalí created this piece to represent the horrors of the Spanish Civil War. Painting this work only six months before the Spanish Civil War had begun, he claimed he was aware of the war in order to appear to have prophet-like abilities due to "the prophetic power of his subconscious mind." Dalí may have changed the name of the painting after the war in a manner of proving this prophetic quality, though it is not entirely certain.. Soft Construction with Boiled Beans (Premonition of Civil War) (1936) is a painting by Spanish Surrealist Salvador Dalí. Dalí created this piece to represent the horrors of the Spanish Civil War. Painting this work only six months before the Spanish Civil War had begun, he claimed he was aware of the war in order to appear to have prophet-like abilities due to "the prophetic power of his subconscious mind." Dalí may have changed the name of the painting after the war in a manner of proving this prophetic quality, though it is not entirely certain.. 
La belle jardinière. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . La belle jardinière, also known as Madonna and Child with Saint John the Baptist, is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael.  It was commissioned by the Sienese patrician Fabrizio Sergardi and shows Mary, Christ and the young John the Baptist. It is currently in the Louvre Museum in Paris, France.This painting is one of the most famous Madonna portraits of Italian Renaissance painter, Raphael. Raphael studied the works of Leonardo da Vinci while in Florence and applied some of Leonardo's techniques to his own painting. Raphael's use of contrasting light and darks, and the relaxed, informal pose of the Madonna illustrates Leonardo's influence on La belle jardinière.. La belle jardinière, also known as Madonna and Child with Saint John the Baptist, is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael. It was commissioned by the Sienese patrician Fabrizio Sergardi and shows Mary, Christ and the young John the Baptist. It is currently in the Louvre Museum in Paris, France.This painting is one of the most famous Madonna portraits of Italian Renaissance painter, Raphael. Raphael studied the works of Leonardo da Vinci while in Florence and applied some of Leonardo's techniques to his own painting. Raphael's use of contrasting light and darks, and the relaxed, informal pose of the Madonna illustrates Leonardo's influence on La belle jardinière.. 
Stay. Author Name: Antony Gormley. . . Stay are identical cast iron human form sculptures made by Antony Gormley and installed in two locations in the central city of Christchurch, New Zealand. The first sculpture was installed in the Avon River in September 2015. The second sculpture is still in storage at Canterbury Museum, to be installed in the north quadrangle of the Arts Centre in early 2016.. Stay are identical cast iron human form sculptures made by Antony Gormley and installed in two locations in the central city of Christchurch, New Zealand. The first sculpture was installed in the Avon River in September 2015. The second sculpture is still in storage at Canterbury Museum, to be installed in the north quadrangle of the Arts Centre in early 2016.. 
Inéquilibre. Author Name: Valérie Goutard. . . 'Inéquilibre' (literally meaning "imbalance", from the French "équilibre" which means "balance") is a bronze sculpture by French artist Val. Out of the twelve editions, only one is currently placed publicly within SkySuite, the highest residential tower in Singapore.. 'Inéquilibre' (literally meaning "imbalance", from the French "équilibre" which means "balance") is a bronze sculpture by French artist Val. Out of the twelve editions, only one is currently placed publicly within SkySuite, the highest residential tower in Singapore.. 
Portrait of Vincenzo Anastagi. Author Name: El Greco. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . The Portrait of Vincenzo Anastagi is a portrait of Vincenzo Anastagi by El Greco, probably painted between 1571 and 1576, during the artist's time in Rome.It is part of the Frick Collection, which acquired it in 1913.. The Portrait of Vincenzo Anastagi is a portrait of Vincenzo Anastagi by El Greco, probably painted between 1571 and 1576, during the artist's time in Rome. It is part of the Frick Collection, which acquired it in 1913.. 
Five Bathing Women at a Lake. Author Name: Ernst Ludwig Kirchner. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Expressionism. . Five Bathing at a Lake (German: Fünf badende am See) is a painting by the Expressionist German painter Ernst Ludwig Kirchner.. Five Bathing at a Lake (German: Fünf badende am See) is a painting by the Expressionist German painter Ernst Ludwig Kirchner.. 
invisible5. Author Name: Amy Balkin. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Conceptual_art. . invisible-5 is an art project created by Amy Balkin, Kim Stringfellow and Tim Halbur which uses the methods employed by a self-guided art gallery tour to provide a self-guided tour of the portion of Interstate 5 between San Francisco and Los Angeles. It was initially distributed on two compact discs, but is now available for download. It has been featured in Metropolis Magazine and the Southern Exposure gallery.. invisible-5 is an art project created by Amy Balkin, Kim Stringfellow and Tim Halbur which uses the methods employed by a self-guided art gallery tour to provide a self-guided tour of the portion of Interstate 5 between San Francisco and Los Angeles. It was initially distributed on two compact discs, but is now available for download. It has been featured in Metropolis Magazine and the Southern Exposure gallery.. 
Violante. Author Name: Titian. . . Violante is an oil painting attributed to Titian, dated to around 1515 and now held at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna.. Violante is an oil painting attributed to Titian, dated to around 1515 and now held at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna.. 
Bleu Horses. Author Name: Dolan, Jim. . . The Bleu Horses is a set of 39 horse sculptures made primarily of steel and permanently installed on a hillside off Highway 287 just north of Three Forks, Montana. The name of the installation is taken from a color of horse known as a blue roan, though the live animal color is actually closer to gray. The horse sculptures were created and set up by artist Jim Dolan of Belgrade, Montana, who previously had created other complex outdoor sculptures over the past 30 years, including a herd of elk placed upon the lawn of a bank in Bozeman, and a fly fisherman sculpture in Ennis. He also donated four of his sculptures at Montana State University (MSU), and installed a flock of geese in the terminal of Bozeman Yellowstone International Airport.. The Bleu Horses is a set of 39 horse sculptures made primarily of steel and permanently installed on a hillside off Highway 287 just north of Three Forks, Montana. The name of the installation is taken from a color of horse known as a blue roan, though the live animal color is actually closer to gray. The horse sculptures were created and set up by artist Jim Dolan of Belgrade, Montana, who previously had created other complex outdoor sculptures over the past 30 years, including a herd of elk placed upon the lawn of a bank in Bozeman, and a fly fisherman sculpture in Ennis. He also donated four of his sculptures at Montana State University (MSU), and installed a flock of geese in the terminal of Bozeman Yellowstone International Airport.. 
The Chicago Lincoln. Author Name: Avard Fairbanks. . . The Chicago Lincoln is a statue of a standing, beardless Abraham Lincoln in Lincoln Square Chicago. The statue was designed by Lloyd Ostendorf for a city contest and built by sculptor Avard Fairbanks, and erected on October 16, 1956.. The Chicago Lincoln is a statue of a standing, beardless Abraham Lincoln in Lincoln Square Chicago. The statue was designed by Lloyd Ostendorf for a city contest and built by sculptor Avard Fairbanks, and erected on October 16, 1956.. 
A-maze-ing Laughter. Author Name: Yue, Minjun. . . A-maze-ing Laughter is a 2009 bronze sculpture by Yue Minjun, located in Morton Park in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.. A-maze-ing Laughter is a 2009 bronze sculpture by Yue Minjun, located in Morton Park in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.. 
Convergence. Author Name: Jackson Pollock. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . Convergence is a 1952 oil painting by Jackson Pollock.. Convergence is a 1952 oil painting by Jackson Pollock.. 
Immaculate Conception. Author Name: Francisco Zurbarán. . Author Movement: Caravaggisti. . The Immaculate Conception is a painting by Zurbarán conserved at the National Art Museum of Catalonia.. The Immaculate Conception is a painting by Zurbarán conserved at the National Art Museum of Catalonia.. 
Standing Woman. Author Name: Gaston Lachaise. . . Standing Woman is a bronze sculpture by Gaston Lachaise.It is one of at least two statues of that name created by Lachaise, the other is often referred to as Standing Woman (Elevation) because the figure appears to be lifting up, as opposed to this work in which, "it is the reverse of buoyancy that is sought. This is a triumphant figure of earth."  The model for both statues was Lachaise's wife Isabel Dutaud Nagle, "his model, his muse and his abiding inspiration.". Standing Woman is a bronze sculpture by Gaston Lachaise. It is one of at least two statues of that name created by Lachaise, the other is often referred to as Standing Woman (Elevation) because the figure appears to be lifting up, as opposed to this work in which, "it is the reverse of buoyancy that is sought. This is a triumphant figure of earth." The model for both statues was Lachaise's wife Isabel Dutaud Nagle, "his model, his muse and his abiding inspiration." Modeled in 1930, it was cast in 1932. It was an edition of 8, examples are at the Franklin D. Murphy Sculpture Garden, Milwaukee Art Museum, The Brooklyn Museum, and Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.. 
Non-violence. Author Name: Reutersward, Carl Fredrik. . . Non-Violence is a bronze sculpture by Swedish artist Carl Fredrik Reuterswärd of an oversized Colt Python .357 Magnum revolver with a knotted barrel and the muzzle pointing upwards. Carl made this sculpture after singer, songwriter and peace activist John Lennon was murdered.There are currently 17 copies of the sculpture around the world, ten of them in Sweden. They are placed in:Located in The Museum of Sketches in Lund, Sweden, is a sketch of the firearm where Reuterswärd has written that the grieving after Lennon and Bob Crane were murdered inspired him to design this artwork.. Non-Violence is a bronze sculpture by Swedish artist Carl Fredrik Reuterswärd of an oversized Colt Python .357 Magnum revolver with a knotted barrel and the muzzle pointing upwards. Carl made this sculpture after singer, songwriter and peace activist John Lennon was murdered. There are currently 17 copies of the sculpture around the world, ten of them in Sweden. They are placed in: Located in The Museum of Sketches in Lund, Sweden, is a sketch of the firearm where Reuterswärd has written that the grieving after Lennon and Bob Crane were murdered inspired him to design this artwork. Since 1993, the sculpture is the symbol of The Non-Violence Project, a nonprofit organization, promoting social change with violence prevention education programs.. 
Saint Eulalia. Author Name: John William Waterhouse. . . Saint Eulalia is an oil painting on canvas in the Pre-Raphaelite style, created in 1885 by English artist John William Waterhouse and currently housed at Tate Britain.. Saint Eulalia is an oil painting on canvas in the Pre-Raphaelite style, created in 1885 by English artist John William Waterhouse and currently housed at Tate Britain.. 
Struggle of the Two Natures in Man. Author Name: George Grey Barnard. . . Struggle of the Two Natures in Man is an 1888 marble sculpture by American artist George Grey Barnard. It was carved during 1892–1894 and measures 101 inches (260 cm) x 102 inches (260 cm) x 48 inches (120 cm). The sculpture is part of the Metropolitan Museum of Art's collection.. Struggle of the Two Natures in Man is an 1888 marble sculpture by American artist George Grey Barnard. It was carved during 1892–1894 and measures 101 inches (260 cm) x 102 inches (260 cm) x 48 inches (120 cm). The sculpture is part of the Metropolitan Museum of Art's collection.. 
L’Amour à la folie. Author Name: Jean-Baptiste Carpeaux. . . L'Amour à la folie (Love to madness) is an 1869 sculpture by Jean-Baptiste Carpeaux, part of the sculptural group "La Danse" for the Paris Opera Garnier, and commissioned architect Charles Garnier.The Musee d'Orsay in Paris holds a terracotta edition (RF 2928), the Museo Soumaya in Mexico City holds both a terracotta and a bronze (Inv.° 274) and the Museu Calouste Gulbenkian in Lisbon holds an edition in marble (Inv.° 563).Henry James wrote of the sculpture group in The New York Tribune in 1875:. L'Amour à la folie (Love to madness) is an 1869 sculpture by Jean-Baptiste Carpeaux, part of the sculptural group "La Danse" for the Paris Opera Garnier, and commissioned architect Charles Garnier.The Musee d'Orsay in Paris holds a terracotta edition (RF 2928), the Museo Soumaya in Mexico City holds both a terracotta and a bronze (Inv.° 274) and the Museu Calouste Gulbenkian in Lisbon holds an edition in marble (Inv.° 563). Henry James wrote of the sculpture group in The New York Tribune in 1875:. 
Football Players. Author Name: Albert Gleizes. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_art. . Les Joueurs de football, also referred to as Football Players, is a 1912-13 painting by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes. The work was exhibited at the Salon des Indépendants, Paris, March–May 1913 (no. 1293). September through December 1913 the painting was exhibited at Erster Deutscher Herbstsalon, Berlin (no. 147). The work was featured at Galeries Dalmau in Barcelona, 29 November – 12 December 1916 (no. 31), Gleizes' first one-person show. Stylistically Gleizes' Football Players exemplifies the principle of mobile perspective laid out in Du "Cubisme", written by himself and French painter Jean Metzinger. Guillaume Apollinaire wrote about Les Joueurs de football in an article titled Le Salon des indépendants, published in L'Intransigeant, 18 mars 1913, and again in . Les Joueurs de football, also referred to as Football Players, is a 1912-13 painting by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes. The work was exhibited at the Salon des Indépendants, Paris, March–May 1913 (no. 1293). September through December 1913 the painting was exhibited at Erster Deutscher Herbstsalon, Berlin (no. 147). The work was featured at Galeries Dalmau in Barcelona, 29 November – 12 December 1916 (no. 31), Gleizes' first one-person show. Stylistically Gleizes' Football Players exemplifies the principle of mobile perspective laid out in Du "Cubisme", written by himself and French painter Jean Metzinger. Guillaume Apollinaire wrote about Les Joueurs de football in an article titled Le Salon des indépendants, published in L'Intransigeant, 18 mars 1913, and again in A travers le Salon des indépendants, published in Montjoie! Numéro Spécial, 18 mars 1913. Les Joueurs de football was left by the artist at Galeries Dalmau in 1916. Titled Jugadors de Futbol, the painting was reproduced in the avant-garde Catalan magazine L'Amic de les arts, November 1926. The caption included the inscription Collection Joseph Dalmau. It was purchased from the Dalmau family between 1953 and 1955 by Stephen Hahn and (); sold in 1955 to Nelson Aldrich Rockefeller, New York. Subsequently the work was sold to Marlborough-Gerson Gallery, New York, and purchased May 1970 by the National Gallery of Art (NGA), Washington D.C.. 
Purification of the Temple. Author Name: El Greco. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . Christ Driving the Money Changers from the Temple is a 1595-1600 Christian art painting by El Greco, now in the Frick Collection. It depicts the Cleansing of the Temple, an event in the Life of Christ.There exist three other copies of the painting and also a faithful reproduction in the National Gallery in London, which has recently been considered as authentic by scholars in the field of visual arts. Two versions and that other on loan from Madrid are titled Purification of the Temple. The one at the National Gallery in Washington is called Christ Cleansing the Temple.. Christ Driving the Money Changers from the Temple is a 1595-1600 Christian art painting by El Greco, now in the Frick Collection. It depicts the Cleansing of the Temple, an event in the Life of Christ. There exist three other copies of the painting and also a faithful reproduction in the National Gallery in London, which has recently been considered as authentic by scholars in the field of visual arts. Two versions and that other on loan from Madrid are titled Purification of the Temple. The one at the National Gallery in Washington is called Christ Cleansing the Temple.. 
St. Quentin. Author Name: Pontormo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . St. Quentin is a painting attributed to the Italian Renaissance master Jacopo Pontormo. According to Giorgio Vasari's Vite, one of Pontormo's pupils, Gianmaria Pichi, was commissioned by his hometown of Sansepolcro a processional standard with the figure of St. Quentin; Pontormo decided to collaborate on the work, at the extent that he finished to complete most of it. The saint's posture resembles that of the "Dying Slave" by Michelangelo: the fact that Pontormo was friend of the latter, confirms the attribution.. St. Quentin is a painting attributed to the Italian Renaissance master Jacopo Pontormo. According to Giorgio Vasari's Vite, one of Pontormo's pupils, Gianmaria Pichi, was commissioned by his hometown of Sansepolcro a processional standard with the figure of St. Quentin; Pontormo decided to collaborate on the work, at the extent that he finished to complete most of it. The saint's posture resembles that of the "Dying Slave" by Michelangelo: the fact that Pontormo was friend of the latter, confirms the attribution. The position of the nails in St. Quentin's body is directly inspired to Jacopo da Varagine's Legenda Aurea.. 
Nocturne: Blue and Gold —. Author Name: James Abbott McNeill Whistler. . Author Movement: Founder of Tonalism. . Nocturne: Blue and Gold – Old Battersea Bridge is a painting by the American artist James McNeill Whistler, now held in the collections of Tate Britain. It was painted around 1872–5.This painting is of the old wooden Battersea Bridge across the River Thames before it was replaced by the modern bridge. Chelsea Old Church to the left (on the north bank of the river) and the then recently built Albert Bridge to the right, with fireworks above, can be seen in the distance. The picture is an evening view and is full of atmospheric effect. The bridge is painted taller than it actually was for added effect. Hokusai, a favorite artist of Whistler's from Japan, produced a similar picture of a tall wooden bridge with fireworks.. Nocturne: Blue and Gold – Old Battersea Bridge is a painting by the American artist James McNeill Whistler, now held in the collections of Tate Britain. It was painted around 1872–5. This painting is of the old wooden Battersea Bridge across the River Thames before it was replaced by the modern bridge. Chelsea Old Church to the left (on the north bank of the river) and the then recently built Albert Bridge to the right, with fireworks above, can be seen in the distance. The picture is an evening view and is full of atmospheric effect. The bridge is painted taller than it actually was for added effect. Hokusai, a favorite artist of Whistler's from Japan, produced a similar picture of a tall wooden bridge with fireworks. The painting was presented to the Tate Gallery by the National Art Collections Fund in 1905. Whistler's Nocturne series, of which this painting was a part, achieved notoriety in 1877, when influential critic John Ruskin visited an exhibition of the series at the Grosvenor Gallery. He wrote of the exhibition that Whistler was "asking two hundred guineas for flinging a pot of paint in the public's face". Whistler sued for libel, the case reaching the courts in 1878. The judge in the case, one Baron Huddleston, caused laughter in the court when he (apparently sincerely) asked Whistler "Which part of the picture is the bridge?" The case ended with Whistler awarded token damages of one farthing. In 1905, Nocturne: Blue and Gold became the first significant acquisition by the newly formed National Art Collections Fund, and now hangs in Tate Britain.. 
Girl at Sewing Machine. Author Name: Edward Hopper. . . Girl at Sewing Machine is a 1921 painting by Edward Hopper, currently housed in the Museo Thyssen-Bornemisza in Madrid, Spain. It portrays a young girl sitting at a sewing machine facing a window on a beautiful sunny day. The location appears to be New York as is evident from the yellow bricks in the window. The exterior vantage point although present only aids in putting the interior activity in perspective.It is one of the first of many of Hopper's "window paintings". Hopper's repeated decision to pose a young woman against her sewing is said to be his commentary on solitude.. Girl at Sewing Machine is a 1921 painting by Edward Hopper, currently housed in the Museo Thyssen-Bornemisza in Madrid, Spain. It portrays a young girl sitting at a sewing machine facing a window on a beautiful sunny day. The location appears to be New York as is evident from the yellow bricks in the window. The exterior vantage point although present only aids in putting the interior activity in perspective. It is one of the first of many of Hopper's "window paintings". Hopper's repeated decision to pose a young woman against her sewing is said to be his commentary on solitude. The painting is the inspiration for Mary Leader's poem of the same name.. 
The Town Hall at Auvers. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . The Town Hall at Auvers is a painting by Vincent van Gogh, executed mid-July 1890. It is based on the view Van Gogh had when he stepped out on the street from the Auberge Ravoux, where he stayed.Along with other canvases from his short period in Auvers-sur-Oise, such as The Church at Auvers and paintings of houses with thatched roofs, this painting seems reminiscent of scenes from the northern landscapes of Van Gogh's childhood and youth.. The Town Hall at Auvers is a painting by Vincent van Gogh, executed mid-July 1890. It is based on the view Van Gogh had when he stepped out on the street from the Auberge Ravoux, where he stayed. Along with other canvases from his short period in Auvers-sur-Oise, such as The Church at Auvers and paintings of houses with thatched roofs, this painting seems reminiscent of scenes from the northern landscapes of Van Gogh's childhood and youth.. 
Rebecca and Eliezer at the Well. Author Name: Carlo Maratta. . Author Movement: Late Baroque. . Rebecca and Eliezer at the Well is an oil painting by Italian artist Carlo Maratta, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It shows the story of Abraham's servant Eliezer giving Rebecca jewels to seal her betrothal to Isaac, after she had demonstrated the kindness foreseen by Abraham in offering water to Eliezer's camels (Gen. 24:11-20).. Rebecca and Eliezer at the Well is an oil painting by Italian artist Carlo Maratta, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It shows the story of Abraham's servant Eliezer giving Rebecca jewels to seal her betrothal to Isaac, after she had demonstrated the kindness foreseen by Abraham in offering water to Eliezer's camels (Gen. 24:11-20).. 
The Gate of Calais. Author Name: William  Hogarth. . . The Gate of Calais or O, the Roast Beef of Old England is a 1748 painting by William Hogarth, reproduced as a print from an engraving the next year. Hogarth produced the painting directly after his return from France, where he had been arrested as a spy while sketching in Calais. The scene depicts a side of beef being transported from the harbour to an English tavern in the port, while a group of undernourished, ragged French soldiers and a fat friar look on hungrily. Hogarth painted himself in the left corner with a "soldier's hand upon my shoulder.". The Gate of Calais or O, the Roast Beef of Old England is a 1748 painting by William Hogarth, reproduced as a print from an engraving the next year. Hogarth produced the painting directly after his return from France, where he had been arrested as a spy while sketching in Calais. The scene depicts a side of beef being transported from the harbour to an English tavern in the port, while a group of undernourished, ragged French soldiers and a fat friar look on hungrily. Hogarth painted himself in the left corner with a "soldier's hand upon my shoulder.". 
Bicycle Wheel. Author Name: Marcel Duchamp. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Conceptual_art. . Bicycle Wheel is a readymade by Marcel Duchamp consisting of a bicycle fork with front wheel mounted upside-down on a wooden stool.In 1913 at his Paris studio he mounted the bicycle wheel upside down onto a stool, spinning it occasionally just to watch it. Later he denied that its creation was purposeful, though it has come to be known as the first of his readymades. "I enjoyed looking at it," he said. "Just as I enjoy looking at the flames dancing in the fireplace." It was not until he began making readymades a few years later in New York that he decided Bicycle Wheel was a readymade. There he realized the 2nd version.. Bicycle Wheel is a readymade by Marcel Duchamp consisting of a bicycle fork with front wheel mounted upside-down on a wooden stool. In 1913 at his Paris studio he mounted the bicycle wheel upside down onto a stool, spinning it occasionally just to watch it. Later he denied that its creation was purposeful, though it has come to be known as the first of his readymades. "I enjoyed looking at it," he said. "Just as I enjoy looking at the flames dancing in the fireplace." It was not until he began making readymades a few years later in New York that he decided Bicycle Wheel was a readymade. There he realized the 2nd version. The original version of 1913 and the version of 1916-17 were lost. Duchamp recreated yet another version of the sculpture in 1951. Bicycle Wheel is said to be the first kinetic sculpture.. 
Gray Tree. Author Name: Piet Mondrian. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/De_Stijl. . Gray Tree is an oil painting by Piet Mondrian. This painting was made in 1911 on canvas on a board measuring 78.5 × 107.5 cm. It is exhibited at Gemeentemuseum Den Haag, The Hague.The work came at a time when Mondrian was beginning to experiment with Cubism: its foreground and background elements seem to intermingle, and the palette is very restricted. The tree is subtly oval in form, following another Cubist practice seen in works by Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque. Mondrian's oval became explicit, framing the work, in paintings that followed over the next three or four years. Apple Tree in Flower, also from 1912, is a similarly sized composition. Though the outline of the "apple tree" recalls that of Gray Tree, the work is significantly more faceted and abstract.. Gray Tree is an oil painting by Piet Mondrian. This painting was made in 1911 on canvas on a board measuring 78.5 × 107.5 cm. It is exhibited at Gemeentemuseum Den Haag, The Hague. The work came at a time when Mondrian was beginning to experiment with Cubism: its foreground and background elements seem to intermingle, and the palette is very restricted. The tree is subtly oval in form, following another Cubist practice seen in works by Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque. Mondrian's oval became explicit, framing the work, in paintings that followed over the next three or four years. Apple Tree in Flower, also from 1912, is a similarly sized composition. Though the outline of the "apple tree" recalls that of Gray Tree, the work is significantly more faceted and abstract.. 
Crak!. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Crak! (sometimes Crack!) is a 1963 pop art lithograph by Roy Lichtenstein in his comic book style of using Ben-Day dots and a text balloon. It was used in marketing materials for one of Lichtenstein's early shows. It is one of several of his works related to military art and monocular vision.. Crak! (sometimes Crack!) is a 1963 pop art lithograph by Roy Lichtenstein in his comic book style of using Ben-Day dots and a text balloon. It was used in marketing materials for one of Lichtenstein's early shows. It is one of several of his works related to military art and monocular vision.. 
Icarus. Author Name: Michael Ayrton. . . Icarus, also known as Icarus III, is an outdoor 1973 sculpture depicting the Greek mythological figure of the same name by Michael Ayrton, installed in Old Charge Court in the City of London, in the United Kingdom.. Icarus, also known as Icarus III, is an outdoor 1973 sculpture depicting the Greek mythological figure of the same name by Michael Ayrton, installed in Old Charge Court in the City of London, in the United Kingdom.. 
The Street Enters The House. Author Name: Umberto Boccioni. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Futurism. . The Street Enters the House (La Strada Entra Nella Casa) is an oil on canvas painting by Italian artist Umberto Boccioni. Painted in the Futurist style, the work centres on a woman on a balcony in front of a busy street, with the sounds of the activity below portrayed as a riot of shapes and colours.The first public display of the painting was in Paris, in 1912, as part of the first Futurist exhibition. It is now housed in the Sprengel Museum in Hanover, Germany.. The Street Enters the House (La Strada Entra Nella Casa) is an oil on canvas painting by Italian artist Umberto Boccioni. Painted in the Futurist style, the work centres on a woman on a balcony in front of a busy street, with the sounds of the activity below portrayed as a riot of shapes and colours. The first public display of the painting was in Paris, in 1912, as part of the first Futurist exhibition. It is now housed in the Sprengel Museum in Hanover, Germany.. 
Lunar Bird. Author Name: Joan Miró. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . Lunar Bird is an abstract bronze sculpture by Joan Miró. It was modeled in 1945, enlarged in 1966, and cast in 1967.It is in the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.. Lunar Bird is an abstract bronze sculpture by Joan Miró. It was modeled in 1945, enlarged in 1966, and cast in 1967. It is in the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.. 
The Adoration of the Kings. Author Name: Pieter Bruegel the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_and_Flemish_Renaissance_painting. . The Adoration of the Kings is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in 1564. It is currently held and exhibited at the National Gallery, London.. The Adoration of the Kings is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in 1564. It is currently held and exhibited at the National Gallery, London.. 
Armistead Monument. Author Name: Berge, Edward. . . The Armistead Monument is a bronze statue of Col. George Armistead, by Edward Berge.It is located at Fort McHenry, Baltimore.It was dedicated on September 12, 1914.The inscription reads:(Sculpture, rear of bronze base, proper right:)CAST BY ROMAN BRONZE WORKS NY (Sculpture, rear of bronze base, proper left:) BERGE (Base, front:)(Base, left side:)(Base, right side:)(Base, rear: list of names of the commission)signed founder's mark appears.. The Armistead Monument is a bronze statue of Col. George Armistead, by Edward Berge.It is located at Fort McHenry, Baltimore.It was dedicated on September 12, 1914. The inscription reads:(Sculpture, rear of bronze base, proper right:)CAST BY ROMAN BRONZE WORKS NY (Sculpture, rear of bronze base, proper left:) BERGE (Base, front:) (Base, left side:) (Base, right side:) (Base, rear: list of names of the commission) signed founder's mark appears.. 
The Virgin and Child with St Anne. Author Name: Leonardo da Vinci. . . The Virgin and Child with St Anne and St John the Baptist, sometimes called The Burlington House Cartoon, is a drawing by Leonardo da Vinci. The drawing is in charcoal and black and white chalk, on eight sheets of paper glued together. Because of its large size and format the drawing is presumed to be a cartoon for a painting. No painting by Leonardo exists that is based directly on this cartoon.. The Virgin and Child with St Anne and St John the Baptist, sometimes called The Burlington House Cartoon, is a drawing by Leonardo da Vinci. The drawing is in charcoal and black and white chalk, on eight sheets of paper glued together. Because of its large size and format the drawing is presumed to be a cartoon for a painting. No painting by Leonardo exists that is based directly on this cartoon. The drawing depicts the Virgin Mary seated on the knees of her mother St Anne and holding the Child Jesus while St. John the Baptist, the cousin of Jesus, stands to the right. It currently hangs in the National Gallery in London. It was either executed in around 1499–1500, at the end of the artist's first Milanese period, or around 1506–8, when he was shuttling between Florence and Milan; the majority of scholars prefer the latter date, although the National Gallery and others prefer the former.. 
For the Love of God. Author Name: Damien Hirst. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Young_British_Artists. . For the Love of God is a sculpture by artist Damien Hirst produced in 2007. It consists of a platinum cast of an 18th-century human skull encrusted with 8,601 flawless diamonds, including a pear-shaped pink diamond located in the forehead that is known as the Skull Star Diamond. The skull's teeth are original, and were purchased by Hirst in London. The artwork is a Memento mori, or reminder of the mortality of the viewer. In 2007, art historian Rudi Fuchs, observed: 'The skull is out of this world, celestial almost. It proclaims victory over decay. At the same time it represents death as something infinitely more relentless. Compared to the tearful sadness of a vanitas scene, the diamond skull is glory itself.' Costing £14 million to produce, the work was placed on its inaugural display at. For the Love of God is a sculpture by artist Damien Hirst produced in 2007. It consists of a platinum cast of an 18th-century human skull encrusted with 8,601 flawless diamonds, including a pear-shaped pink diamond located in the forehead that is known as the Skull Star Diamond. The skull's teeth are original, and were purchased by Hirst in London. The artwork is a Memento mori, or reminder of the mortality of the viewer. In 2007, art historian Rudi Fuchs, observed: 'The skull is out of this world, celestial almost. It proclaims victory over decay. At the same time it represents death as something infinitely more relentless. Compared to the tearful sadness of a vanitas scene, the diamond skull is glory itself.' Costing £14 million to produce, the work was placed on its inaugural display at the White Cube gallery in London in an exhibition Beyond belief with an asking price of £50 million. This would have been the highest price ever paid for a single work by a living artist.. 
The Problem We All Live With. Author Name: Norman Rockwell. . . The Problem We All Live With is a 1964 painting by Norman Rockwell. An iconic image of the Civil Rights Movement in the United States, it depicts Ruby Bridges, a six-year-old African-American girl, on her way into an all-white public school in New Orleans on November 14, 1960 during the process of racial desegregation. Because of threats and violence against her, she is escorted by four deputy U.S. marshals; the painting is framed such that the marshals' heads are cropped at the shoulders. On the wall behind her is written the racial slur "nigger" and the letters "KKK"; a smashed tomato thrown at Bridges is also visible. The white crowd is not visible, as the viewer is looking at the scene from their point of view. The painting is oil on canvas and measures 36 inches (91 cm) high by 58 inc. The Problem We All Live With is a 1964 painting by Norman Rockwell. An iconic image of the Civil Rights Movement in the United States, it depicts Ruby Bridges, a six-year-old African-American girl, on her way into an all-white public school in New Orleans on November 14, 1960 during the process of racial desegregation. Because of threats and violence against her, she is escorted by four deputy U.S. marshals; the painting is framed such that the marshals' heads are cropped at the shoulders. On the wall behind her is written the racial slur "nigger" and the letters "KKK"; a smashed tomato thrown at Bridges is also visible. The white crowd is not visible, as the viewer is looking at the scene from their point of view. The painting is oil on canvas and measures 36 inches (91 cm) high by 58 inches (150 cm) wide.. 
Salem No. 7. Author Name: Milkowski, Antoni. . . Salem No. 7 is a public art work by artist Antoni Milkowski located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The Cor-Ten steel sculpture is a geometric form composed of six cubes surrounding a seventh cube of empty space; it is installed on the lawn.. Salem No. 7 is a public art work by artist Antoni Milkowski located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The Cor-Ten steel sculpture is a geometric form composed of six cubes surrounding a seventh cube of empty space; it is installed on the lawn.. 
Bust of Thomas Baker. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Bust of Thomas Baker is a 1638 marble portrait sculpture created by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini, with much of the bust undertaken by a pupil of Bernini, probably Andrea Bolgi. It is currently held in the Victoria and Albert Museum, London, who purchased the bust in 1921 for 1480 English guineas.. The Bust of Thomas Baker is a 1638 marble portrait sculpture created by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini, with much of the bust undertaken by a pupil of Bernini, probably Andrea Bolgi. It is currently held in the Victoria and Albert Museum, London, who purchased the bust in 1921 for 1480 English guineas. Baker (1606–58) was High Sheriff of Suffolk and connected to the court of Charles I. He may have been indirectly involved in another Bernini bust, carrying the triple portrait of Charles I by Van Dyck to Rome; it was from this portrait that Bernini carved the now-destroyed bust of King Charles.. 
The Blue Room. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The Blue Room (French: La chambre bleue) is a 1901 painting by Pablo Picasso painted during his Blue Period. It was found to have a different painting hidden under it using X-ray technology in 2014 by a group of art historians and scientists from the Phillips Collection in Washington.. The Blue Room (French: La chambre bleue) is a 1901 painting by Pablo Picasso painted during his Blue Period. It was found to have a different painting hidden under it using X-ray technology in 2014 by a group of art historians and scientists from the Phillips Collection in Washington.. 
La donna gravida. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . La donna gravida (or simply La gravida; Italian for "The Pregnant Woman") is an oil on wood portrait by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael. It was painted between 1505 and 1506, during Raphael's stay in Florence, Italy. It is currently housed in the Palazzo Pitti in Florence.The portrait depicts a woman who is pregnant sitting with her left hand resting on her stomach. Paintings of pregnant women were unusual in the Renaissance period.. La donna gravida (or simply La gravida; Italian for "The Pregnant Woman") is an oil on wood portrait by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael. It was painted between 1505 and 1506, during Raphael's stay in Florence, Italy. It is currently housed in the Palazzo Pitti in Florence. The portrait depicts a woman who is pregnant sitting with her left hand resting on her stomach. Paintings of pregnant women were unusual in the Renaissance period.. 
Daughters of Revolution. Author Name: Grant Wood. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Regionalism_(art). . Daughters of Revolution (1932) is a painting by American artist Grant Wood; he claimed it as his only satire.. Daughters of Revolution (1932) is a painting by American artist Grant Wood; he claimed it as his only satire.. 
Le déjeuner des canotiers. Author Name: Pierre-Auguste Renoir. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Luncheon of the Boating Party (1880–1881, French: Le déjeuner des canotiers) is a painting by French impressionist Pierre-Auguste Renoir. Included in the Seventh Impressionist Exhibition in 1882, it was identified as the best painting in the show by three critics. It was purchased from the artist by the dealer-patron Paul Durand-Ruel and bought in 1923 (for $125,000) from his son by Duncan Phillips. It is now in The Phillips Collection in Washington, D.C. It shows a richness of form, a fluidity of brush stroke, and a flickering light.. Luncheon of the Boating Party (1880–1881, French: Le déjeuner des canotiers) is a painting by French impressionist Pierre-Auguste Renoir. Included in the Seventh Impressionist Exhibition in 1882, it was identified as the best painting in the show by three critics. It was purchased from the artist by the dealer-patron Paul Durand-Ruel and bought in 1923 (for $125,000) from his son by Duncan Phillips. It is now in The Phillips Collection in Washington, D.C. It shows a richness of form, a fluidity of brush stroke, and a flickering light.. 
The Nightmare. Author Name: Henry Fuseli. . . The Nightmare is a 1781 oil painting by Anglo-Swiss artist Henry Fuseli (1741–1825). Since its creation, it has remained Fuseli's best-known work. With its first exhibition in 1782 at the Royal Academy of London, the image became famous; an engraved version was widely distributed and the painting was parodied in political satire. Due to its fame, Fuseli painted at least three other versions of the painting.. The Nightmare is a 1781 oil painting by Anglo-Swiss artist Henry Fuseli (1741–1825). Since its creation, it has remained Fuseli's best-known work. With its first exhibition in 1782 at the Royal Academy of London, the image became famous; an engraved version was widely distributed and the painting was parodied in political satire. Due to its fame, Fuseli painted at least three other versions of the painting. Interpretations of The Nightmare have varied widely. The canvas seems to portray simultaneously a dreaming woman and the content of her nightmare. The incubus and the horse's head refer to contemporary belief and folklore about nightmares, but have been ascribed more specific meanings by some theorists. Contemporary critics were taken aback by the overt sexuality of the painting, which has since been interpreted by some scholars as anticipating Freudian ideas about the unconscious.. 
Ohhh...Alright.... Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Ohhh...Alright... is a 1964 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It formerly held the record for highest auction price for a Lichtenstein painting.. Ohhh...Alright... is a 1964 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It formerly held the record for highest auction price for a Lichtenstein painting.. 
Retrato de Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Portrait of Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler (Spanish: Retrato de Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler) is a 1910 oil on canvas painting by Pablo Picasso in the Analytical Cubism style. It was completed in 1910, and is in the collection of the Art Institute of Chicago. The artwork displays brown as its prominent color, with dimensions 100.5 cm × 73 cm.. Portrait of Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler (Spanish: Retrato de Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler) is a 1910 oil on canvas painting by Pablo Picasso in the Analytical Cubism style. It was completed in 1910, and is in the collection of the Art Institute of Chicago. The artwork displays brown as its prominent color, with dimensions 100.5 cm × 73 cm.. 
Black Leaf on Green Background. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . Black Leaf on Green Background (1952) is a collage by Henri Matisse. The medium is gouache and cut paper on paper. It is in the Menil Collection, Houston, Texas. During the early-to-mid-1940s Matisse was in poor health, and by 1950 he stopped painting in favor of his paper cutouts. Black Leaf on Green Background is an example of Matisse's final body of works known as the cutouts.. Black Leaf on Green Background (1952) is a collage by Henri Matisse. The medium is gouache and cut paper on paper. It is in the Menil Collection, Houston, Texas. During the early-to-mid-1940s Matisse was in poor health, and by 1950 he stopped painting in favor of his paper cutouts. Black Leaf on Green Background is an example of Matisse's final body of works known as the cutouts.. 
Young Woman in Blue. Author Name: Edgar Degas. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Young Woman in Blue is a drawing by French artist Edgar Degas, created in 1884. It is currently in the permanent collection at the Indianapolis Museum of Art.. Young Woman in Blue is a drawing by French artist Edgar Degas, created in 1884. It is currently in the permanent collection at the Indianapolis Museum of Art.. 
Nude with Yellow Flower. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Nude with Yellow Flower is a 1994 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein.. Nude with Yellow Flower is a 1994 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein.. 
Trojeručica. Author Name: Ioannes Damascenus. . . Bogorodica Trojeručica (Serbian Cyrillic: Богородица Тројеручица, Greek: Παναγία Τριχερούσα, Panayia Tricherousa, meaning "Three-handed Theotokos") or simply Trojeručica (Three-handed) is a famous wonderworking icon in the Serb Orthodox monastery of Hilandar on Mount Athos, Greece. It depicts Theotokos (Virgin Mary) with young Jesus in the hodegetria position, and is covered with a riza. It is the most important icon of the Serbian Orthodox Church. On the back of the icon is the painting of St Nicholas.. Bogorodica Trojeručica (Serbian Cyrillic: Богородица Тројеручица, Greek: Παναγία Τριχερούσα, Panayia Tricherousa, meaning "Three-handed Theotokos") or simply Trojeručica (Three-handed) is a famous wonderworking icon in the Serb Orthodox monastery of Hilandar on Mount Athos, Greece. It depicts Theotokos (Virgin Mary) with young Jesus in the hodegetria position, and is covered with a riza. It is the most important icon of the Serbian Orthodox Church. On the back of the icon is the painting of St Nicholas.. 
A Boy and a Sea. Author Name: Lev Alexandrovich Russov. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Spring Fine Art Exhibition of Leningrad artists (Leningrad, 1955) (Russian: "Весенняя выставка произведений ленинградских художников 1955 года") become one of the important Soviet Art Exhibition of 1955 and middle of 1950s at whole. The Exhibition took place in Leningrad Union of Soviet Artists Exhibition Halls on Bolshaya Morskaya st. 38.. Spring Fine Art Exhibition of Leningrad artists (Leningrad, 1955) (Russian: "Весенняя выставка произведений ленинградских художников 1955 года") become one of the important Soviet Art Exhibition of 1955 and middle of 1950s at whole. The Exhibition took place in Leningrad Union of Soviet Artists Exhibition Halls on Bolshaya Morskaya st. 38.. 
The Golden Stairs. Author Name: Sir Edward Burne-Jones, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Aestheticism. . The Golden Stairs is one of the best-known paintings by the Pre-Raphaelite artist Edward Burne-Jones. It was begun in 1876 and exhibited at the Grosvenor Gallery in 1880.Unlike many of Burne-Jones's works, The Golden Stairs is not based on a literary source. It has been called Symbolist, as it has no recognisable narrative, but rather sets a mood. It is a harmony of color in the tradition of the Aesthetic works of the 1860s and 1870s, as a group of young women carrying musical instruments descend a spiraling staircase, dressed in classically inspired robes in tones of white, shading to gold and silver. Critic F. G. Stephens wrote in the Athenaeum that the musicians "troop past like spirits in an enchanted dream ... whither they go, who they are, there is nothing to tell".. The Golden Stairs is one of the best-known paintings by the Pre-Raphaelite artist Edward Burne-Jones. It was begun in 1876 and exhibited at the Grosvenor Gallery in 1880. Unlike many of Burne-Jones's works, The Golden Stairs is not based on a literary source. It has been called Symbolist, as it has no recognisable narrative, but rather sets a mood. It is a harmony of color in the tradition of the Aesthetic works of the 1860s and 1870s, as a group of young women carrying musical instruments descend a spiraling staircase, dressed in classically inspired robes in tones of white, shading to gold and silver. Critic F. G. Stephens wrote in the Athenaeum that the musicians "troop past like spirits in an enchanted dream ... whither they go, who they are, there is nothing to tell". The Golden Stairs was one of many paintings Burne-Jones sketched out in 1872 following a trip to Italy. He began work on the canvas in 1876 and finished it in great haste in April 1880, just days before the Grosvenor Gallery exhibition was to open. Stephens found in the painting echoes of the work of Piero della Francesca, whose frescoes Burne-Jones had seen and copied in 1871. The figures of the musicians were drawn from professional models, but the heads are young women of Burne-Jones's circle. Some identifications have been made as follows. His daughter Margaret is fourth from top, holding a trumpet. Edith Gellibrand, known by the stage name Edith Chester, is seventh from top, seen stooping. May Morris, daughter of William Morris, is ninth from top, holding a violin. Frances Graham, later known as Lady Horner, daughter of William Graham, is bottom left, holding cymbals. Standing behind her on the stairs is Mary Gladstone, daughter of William Gladstone. Others include Laura Tennant, later known as Laura Lyttelton, and Mary Stuart-Wortley, later Lady Lovelace. The painting was purchased by Cyril Flower (1843–1907), later Lord Battersea, a politician and art patron, and was bequeathed by him to the Tate Gallery, where it remains.. 
The Arrest of Pangeran Diponegoro. Author Name: Raden Saleh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . The Arrest of Pangeran Diponegoro (also The Arrest of Prince Diponegoro; Indonesian: Penangkapan Pangeran Diponegoro; Dutch: Gevangenname van Prins Diponegoro) is an 1857 painting by Raden Saleh, depicting the capture of Prince Diponegoro by Lieutenant General Hendrik Merkus de Kock on 28 March 1830.. The Arrest of Pangeran Diponegoro (also The Arrest of Prince Diponegoro; Indonesian: Penangkapan Pangeran Diponegoro; Dutch: Gevangenname van Prins Diponegoro) is an 1857 painting by Raden Saleh, depicting the capture of Prince Diponegoro by Lieutenant General Hendrik Merkus de Kock on 28 March 1830.. 
Portrait of a Young Woman. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Portrait of a Young Woman, also known as La Muta, is a portrait by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael, c. 1507-1508. It is housed in the Galleria Nazionale delle Marche, in Urbino.The picture portrays an unknown noblewoman over a near-black background, showing some Leonardesque influences. Although only recently attributed to Raphael, it is ranked among the best portraits by his hand.Nicoletta Baldini describes the hands in this portrait as "vibratile," a distinction from Michelangelo or Da Vinci.. The Portrait of a Young Woman, also known as La Muta, is a portrait by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael, c. 1507-1508. It is housed in the Galleria Nazionale delle Marche, in Urbino. The picture portrays an unknown noblewoman over a near-black background, showing some Leonardesque influences. Although only recently attributed to Raphael, it is ranked among the best portraits by his hand. The neatness of the large areas of colour which emerge in lighter tones from the background, and the analytical treatment of the details of the woman's clothing are characteristic of Raphael. The dispersive effect of this attention to detail is fully compensated by the tones of colour - used here in a fairly limited range - which unify the composition as a whole. Nicoletta Baldini describes the hands in this portrait as "vibratile," a distinction from Michelangelo or Da Vinci. X-ray analysis has shown the presence of an early Raphael drawing under the painting, of a female, young face with soft features, with later modifications.. 
Sunrise with Sea Monsters. Author Name: J. M. W. Turner. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . Sunrise with Sea Monsters is an oil painting by English artist J. M. W. Turner. It is in the permanent collection of Tate Britain.. Sunrise with Sea Monsters is an oil painting by English artist J. M. W. Turner. It is in the permanent collection of Tate Britain.. 
Houston Triptych. Author Name: Ellsworth Kelly. . . Houston Triptych is an outdoor 1986 bronze sculpture by American artist Ellsworth Kelly, installed at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston's Lillie and Hugh Roy Cullen Sculpture Garden, in the U.S. state of Texas. It was commissioned by the museum and donated by the Brown Foundation, Inc. and Mr. and Mrs. M. S. Stude in honor of Mr. and Mrs. George R. Brown. Artnet's Phyllis Tuchman described the work as "three black geometric shapes mounted on a tall concrete wall" and said, "After the rain, the metal is dark and foreboding. In sunlight, shadows cast on the wall where the elements reach 12 inches into space practically mimic ivy vines.". Houston Triptych is an outdoor 1986 bronze sculpture by American artist Ellsworth Kelly, installed at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston's Lillie and Hugh Roy Cullen Sculpture Garden, in the U.S. state of Texas. It was commissioned by the museum and donated by the Brown Foundation, Inc. and Mr. and Mrs. M. S. Stude in honor of Mr. and Mrs. George R. Brown. Artnet's Phyllis Tuchman described the work as "three black geometric shapes mounted on a tall concrete wall" and said, "After the rain, the metal is dark and foreboding. In sunlight, shadows cast on the wall where the elements reach 12 inches into space practically mimic ivy vines.". 
Magdalene Penitent. Author Name: Donatello. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Penitent Magdalene is a wooden sculpture of Mary Magdalene by the Italian Renaissance sculptor Donatello, created around 1453-1455. The sculpture was probably commissioned for the Baptistery of Florence. The piece was received with astonishment for its unprecedented realism. It is currently housed in the Museo dell'Opera del Duomo in Florence.The wood used by Donatello is that of White poplar.. The Penitent Magdalene is a wooden sculpture of Mary Magdalene by the Italian Renaissance sculptor Donatello, created around 1453-1455. The sculpture was probably commissioned for the Baptistery of Florence. The piece was received with astonishment for its unprecedented realism. It is currently housed in the Museo dell'Opera del Duomo in Florence. The wood used by Donatello is that of White poplar.. 
The Flight into Egypt. Author Name: Nicolas Poussin. . Author Movement: Baroque. . The Flight into Egypt is a painting by Nicolas Poussin painted in 1657 or 1658. It was originally kept in the Musée du Louvre, then was transferred to the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Lyon.. The Flight into Egypt is a painting by Nicolas Poussin painted in 1657 or 1658. It was originally kept in the Musée du Louvre, then was transferred to the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Lyon.. 
Dresden Altarpiece. Author Name: Albrecht Dürer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Dresden Altarpiece is a triptych by German Renaissance artists Albrecht Dürer, executed between 1496 and 1497, and perhaps continued in 1503-1504. It is housed in the Gemäldegalerie Alte Meister of Dresden, Germany.. The Dresden Altarpiece is a triptych by German Renaissance artists Albrecht Dürer, executed between 1496 and 1497, and perhaps continued in 1503-1504. It is housed in the Gemäldegalerie Alte Meister of Dresden, Germany.. 
New Forms. Author Name: Tony Cragg. . . New Forms is an outdoor 1991–1992 bronze sculpture by British artist Tony Cragg, installed at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston's Lillie and Hugh Roy Cullen Sculpture Garden, in the U.S. state of Texas. It was commissioned by the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston and donated by the Schissler Foundation.. New Forms is an outdoor 1991–1992 bronze sculpture by British artist Tony Cragg, installed at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston's Lillie and Hugh Roy Cullen Sculpture Garden, in the U.S. state of Texas. It was commissioned by the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston and donated by the Schissler Foundation.. 
Vision of a Knight. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Vision of a Knight or The Dream of Scipio or Allegory is a small egg tempera painting on poplar by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael, finished in 1504–1505. It is in the National Gallery in London. It probably formed a pair with the Three Graces panel, also 17 cm square, now in the Château de Chantilly museum.The most likely source for the allegory depicted is from a passage in the Punica, an epic poem recounting the Second Punic War by the Latin poet Silius Italicus.The panel was moved to England by William Young Ottley in 1800.. The Vision of a Knight or The Dream of Scipio or Allegory is a small egg tempera painting on poplar by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael, finished in 1504–1505. It is in the National Gallery in London. It probably formed a pair with the Three Graces panel, also 17 cm square, now in the Château de Chantilly museum. There are a number of theories as to what the panel is intended to represent. Some art historians think the sleeping knight represents the Roman general Scipio Africanus (236–184 BC) who dreamed that he had to choose between Virtue (behind whom is a steep and rocky path) and Pleasure (in looser robes). However, the two feminine figures are not presented as contestants. They may represent the ideal attributes of the knight: the book, sword and flower which they hold suggest the ideals of scholar, soldier and lover which a knight should combine. The most likely source for the allegory depicted is from a passage in the Punica, an epic poem recounting the Second Punic War by the Latin poet Silius Italicus. The panel was moved to England by William Young Ottley in 1800.. 
Benjamin Franklin. Author Name: Jacques Jouvenal. . . Benjamin Franklin is a Carrara marble statue by Jacques Jouvenal. It sits at Old Post Office Pavilion, at 12th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue NW in Washington, D.C.A gift of Stilson Hutchins, a founder of the Washington Post, it was dedicated on January 17, 1889, at 10th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue. It was moved to its current site in 1982.. Benjamin Franklin is a Carrara marble statue by Jacques Jouvenal. It sits at Old Post Office Pavilion, at 12th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue NW in Washington, D.C. A gift of Stilson Hutchins, a founder of the Washington Post, it was dedicated on January 17, 1889, at 10th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue. It was moved to its current site in 1982.. 
Bust of Gabriele Fonseca. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Bust of Gabriele Fonseca is a sculptural portrait by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Executed sometime between 1668 and 1674, the work is located in San Lorenzo in Lucina in Rome, Italy. Gabriele Fonseca was the doctor to Pope Innocent X.. The Bust of Gabriele Fonseca is a sculptural portrait by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Executed sometime between 1668 and 1674, the work is located in San Lorenzo in Lucina in Rome, Italy. Gabriele Fonseca was the doctor to Pope Innocent X.. 
Woman in a Purple Coat. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . Woman In A Purple Coat or The Purple Coat is a painting by Henri Matisse from 1937. It depicts Matisse's assistant Lydia Delectorskaya. This painting is an example of Henri Matisse's mature decorative style. Matisse depicts his model and companion of many years, Lydia Delectorskaya, in an exotic Moroccan costume, surrounded by a complex of abstract design and exotic color. This is an example of one of the final groups of oil paintings in Matisse's career, in 1950 he stopped painting oil paintings in favor of creating paper cutouts.. Woman In A Purple Coat or The Purple Coat is a painting by Henri Matisse from 1937. It depicts Matisse's assistant Lydia Delectorskaya. This painting is an example of Henri Matisse's mature decorative style. Matisse depicts his model and companion of many years, Lydia Delectorskaya, in an exotic Moroccan costume, surrounded by a complex of abstract design and exotic color. This is an example of one of the final groups of oil paintings in Matisse's career, in 1950 he stopped painting oil paintings in favor of creating paper cutouts.. 
The Crystal Ball. Author Name: John William Waterhouse. . . The Crystal Ball is a painting by John William Waterhouse completed in 1902. Waterhouse displayed both it and The Missal in the Royal Academy of 1902. The painting shows the influence of the Italian Renaissance with vertical and horizontal lines, along with circles "rather than the pointed arches of the Gothic".Part of a private collection, the painting has been restored to show the skull which had been covered by a previous owner.. The Crystal Ball is a painting by John William Waterhouse completed in 1902. Waterhouse displayed both it and The Missal in the Royal Academy of 1902. The painting shows the influence of the Italian Renaissance with vertical and horizontal lines, along with circles "rather than the pointed arches of the Gothic". Part of a private collection, the painting has been restored to show the skull which had been covered by a previous owner.. 
The Holy Trinity. Author Name: Masaccio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Holy Trinity, with the Virgin and Saint John and donors (Italian: Santa Trinità ) is a fresco by the Early Italian Renaissance painter Masaccio. It is located in the Dominican church of Santa Maria Novella, in Florence.. The Holy Trinity, with the Virgin and Saint John and donors (Italian: Santa Trinità ) is a fresco by the Early Italian Renaissance painter Masaccio. It is located in the Dominican church of Santa Maria Novella, in Florence.. 
Cybele. Author Name: Auguste Rodin. . . Cybele is an outdoor bronze sculpture by French artist Auguste Rodin, installed at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston's Lillie and Hugh Roy Cullen Sculpture Garden, in the U.S. state of Texas.. Cybele is an outdoor bronze sculpture by French artist Auguste Rodin, installed at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston's Lillie and Hugh Roy Cullen Sculpture Garden, in the U.S. state of Texas.. 
Larry La Trobe. Author Name: Irving, Pamela. . . Larry La Trobe is the name given to a popular, cast bronze statue of a dog situated on the northern end of Melbourne’s City Square (corner of Collins Street and Swanston Street). Along with the Burke and Wills monument, the statue is one of only two free standing art works in the City Square precinct. The statue now located in the square is the second statue of 'Larry', the original having been stolen.. Larry La Trobe is the name given to a popular, cast bronze statue of a dog situated on the northern end of Melbourne’s City Square (corner of Collins Street and Swanston Street). Along with the Burke and Wills monument, the statue is one of only two free standing art works in the City Square precinct. The statue now located in the square is the second statue of 'Larry', the original having been stolen.. 
The Last Judgment. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Last Judgment, or The Last Judgement (Italian: Il Giudizio Universale), is a fresco by the Italian Renaissance master Michelangelo executed on the altar wall of the Sistine Chapel in Vatican City. It is a depiction of the Second Coming of Christ and the final and eternal judgment by God of all humanity. The souls of humans rise and descend to their fates, as judged by Christ surrounded by prominent saints including Saints Catherine of Alexandria, Peter, Lawrence, Bartholomew, Paul, Sebastian, John the Baptist, and others.. The Last Judgment, or The Last Judgement (Italian: Il Giudizio Universale), is a fresco by the Italian Renaissance master Michelangelo executed on the altar wall of the Sistine Chapel in Vatican City. It is a depiction of the Second Coming of Christ and the final and eternal judgment by God of all humanity. The souls of humans rise and descend to their fates, as judged by Christ surrounded by prominent saints including Saints Catherine of Alexandria, Peter, Lawrence, Bartholomew, Paul, Sebastian, John the Baptist, and others. The work took four years to complete and was done between 1536 and 1541 (preparation of the altar wall began in 1535.) Michelangelo began working on it twenty five years after having finished the Sistine Chapel ceiling. An older and more thoughtful Michelangelo originally accepted the commission for this important painting from Pope Clement VII. The original subject of the mural was the resurrection, but with the Pope's death, his successor, Pope Paul III, felt the Last Judgment was a more fitting subject for 1530s Rome. While traditional medieval last judgments showed figures dressed according to their social positions, Michelangelo created a new standard. His groundbreaking concept of the event shows figures equalized in their nudity, stripped bare of rank. The artist portrayed the separation of the blessed and the damned by showing the saved ascending on the left and the damned descending on the right. The fresco is more monochromatic than the ceiling frescoes and is dominated by the tones of flesh and sky. The cleaning and restoration of the fresco, however, revealed a greater chromatic range than previously apparent. Orange, green, yellow, and blue are scattered throughout, animating and unifying the complex scene.. 
A Just View of the British Stage. Author Name: William  Hogarth. . . A Just View of the British Stage or Three Heads are Better than One is an unsigned 1724 engraving attributed to the English artist William Hogarth. It is a satirical view of the management of British plays and mocks the subjects as degenerate. It forms part of an attack on the tastes of the theatre which Hogarth mounted in earnest between 1723 with Masquerades and Operas and 1727 with Masquerade Ticket (and which would continue to some extent in later works including Charmers of the Age in 1740–41).. A Just View of the British Stage or Three Heads are Better than One is an unsigned 1724 engraving attributed to the English artist William Hogarth. It is a satirical view of the management of British plays and mocks the subjects as degenerate. It forms part of an attack on the tastes of the theatre which Hogarth mounted in earnest between 1723 with Masquerades and Operas and 1727 with Masquerade Ticket (and which would continue to some extent in later works including Charmers of the Age in 1740–41).. 
Nittany Lion Shrine. Author Name: Warneke, Heinz. . . The Nittany Lion Shrine is a large mountain lion sculpture made by Heinz Warneke located at the main campus of the Pennsylvania State University. The shrine is the second most photographed landmark in Pennsylvania, behind the Liberty Bell in Philadelphia.. The Nittany Lion Shrine is a large mountain lion sculpture made by Heinz Warneke located at the main campus of the Pennsylvania State University. The shrine is the second most photographed landmark in Pennsylvania, behind the Liberty Bell in Philadelphia.. 
Young Spartans Exercising. Author Name: Edgar Degas. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Young Spartans Exercising, also known as Young Spartans and also as Young Spartan Girls Challenging Boys, is an early oil on canvas painting by French impressionist artist Edgar Degas. The work depicts two groups of male and female Spartan youth exercising, and challenging each other in some way. The work is now in the permanent collection of the National Gallery in London.. Young Spartans Exercising, also known as Young Spartans and also as Young Spartan Girls Challenging Boys, is an early oil on canvas painting by French impressionist artist Edgar Degas. The work depicts two groups of male and female Spartan youth exercising, and challenging each other in some way. The work is now in the permanent collection of the National Gallery in London.. 
Peristyle, Three Lines. Author Name: George Rickey. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Kinetic_art. . Peristyle, Three Lines is a public art work by artist George Rickey located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The kinetic sculpture consists of three tapering spear-like forms thrusting vertically; it is installed on the lawn.. Peristyle, Three Lines is a public art work by artist George Rickey located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The kinetic sculpture consists of three tapering spear-like forms thrusting vertically; it is installed on the lawn.. 
Saint Jerome. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Saints Jerome and Mary Magdalen are two sculptures by the Italian artist Gianlorenzo Bernini. They sit in the Chigi Chapel of Siena Cathedral. The statues were commissioned as part of the chapel by the then pope Alexander VII (Fabio Chigi).Work began on the sculptures in 1661 and they were delivered from Rome to Siena in 1663. Bernini was paid 2,128 scudi for his work, although he probably received considerable assistance in their creation.. Saints Jerome and Mary Magdalen are two sculptures by the Italian artist Gianlorenzo Bernini. They sit in the Chigi Chapel of Siena Cathedral. The statues were commissioned as part of the chapel by the then pope Alexander VII (Fabio Chigi). Work began on the sculptures in 1661 and they were delivered from Rome to Siena in 1663. Bernini was paid 2,128 scudi for his work, although he probably received considerable assistance in their creation. Within the chapel, there are a further two sculptures by artists from Bernini's workshop - a St Catherine of Siena by Ercole Ferrata and a St Bernard of Siena by Antonio Raggi. The chapel as a whole was designed by Bernini. Scholars have emphasised the mystical experience being undergone by the figures. Rudolf Wittkower documents the "intensification of the visionary quality" in the statues, both figures engaged not in the physical world around them, but absorbed in their own spiritual spaces. Howard Hibbard continues this line of argument, demonstrating how the figures break out of the niches which are supposed to contain them—further evidence of how Jerome and Mary Magdalen are not constrained by the earthly world but responding to something higher. A preparatory drawing for the Mary Magdalen exists at the Leizpig Museum of Fine Arts, while there is preparatory sculpture of Jerome's head in the Fogg Art Museum of Harvard University.. 
Hiroshima 49 Seconds. Author Name: Kanso, Nabil. . . Hiroshima Nagasaki One-Minute is the subject of two mural-scale paintings made by Nabil Kanso in 1978-79. One is titled 49-Second (Hiroshima) done in oil on canvas measuring 3 X 5.50 meters (10 X 18 feet), the other 11-Seconds (Nagasaki) oil-on-canvas triptych measuring 3 X 4.60 meters (10 X 14 feet) center, and 2.75 X 1.32 meters (9 X 6 feet) each side.. Hiroshima Nagasaki One-Minute is the subject of two mural-scale paintings made by Nabil Kanso in 1978-79. One is titled 49-Second (Hiroshima) done in oil on canvas measuring 3 X 5.50 meters (10 X 18 feet), the other 11-Seconds (Nagasaki) oil-on-canvas triptych measuring 3 X 4.60 meters (10 X 14 feet) center, and 2.75 X 1.32 meters (9 X 6 feet) each side.. 
Ludwig van Beethoven. Author Name: Baerer, Henry. . . Ludwig van Beethoven is a series of sculptures of Ludwig van Beethoven by German-American sculptor Henry Baerer. Versions are displayed in Central Park in New York City, Golden Gate Park in San Francisco, and Prospect Park in Brooklyn. The sculpture in Central Park was dedicated on July 22, 1884. It includes two bronze statues, including a bust of Beethoven and an allegorical female figure on a polished Barre Granite pedestal.. Ludwig van Beethoven is a series of sculptures of Ludwig van Beethoven by German-American sculptor Henry Baerer. Versions are displayed in Central Park in New York City, Golden Gate Park in San Francisco, and Prospect Park in Brooklyn. The sculpture in Central Park was dedicated on July 22, 1884. It includes two bronze statues, including a bust of Beethoven and an allegorical female figure on a polished Barre Granite pedestal.. 
Ciphers and Constellations in Love with a Woman. Author Name: Joan Miró. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . Ciphers and Constellations in Love with a Woman (Catalan: Xifrats i constellacions, en l'amor amb una dona) is a painting by Joan Miró created in 1941. The medium is gouache, watercolor, and graphite on paper, and the work's dimensions are 46 cm × 38 cm (18 in × 15 in). It is in the Art Institute of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, USA. It is one of the 23 pieces in Miró's Constellations series.The painting inspired a poem of the same title by Ruth Moon Kempher.. Ciphers and Constellations in Love with a Woman (Catalan: Xifrats i constellacions, en l'amor amb una dona) is a painting by Joan Miró created in 1941. The medium is gouache, watercolor, and graphite on paper, and the work's dimensions are 46 cm × 38 cm (18 in × 15 in). It is in the Art Institute of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, USA. It is one of the 23 pieces in Miró's Constellations series. The painting inspired a poem of the same title by Ruth Moon Kempher.. 
The Unwelcome Companion: A Street Scene in Cairo. Author Name: John William Waterhouse. . . The Unwelcome Companion: A Street Scene in Cairo is an early painting by John William Waterhouse. Completed in 1873, it was exhibited at the gallery of the Society of British Artists.In 1951, P. Oldman donated it to Towneley Art Gallery; it was misidentified as Spanish Tambourine Girl until a label with the correct name was discovered by Anthony Hobson. As the scenario of The Unwelcome Companion "is obscure", Hobson says that Waterhouse "Had not yet acquired that combination of an appropriate setting with the pose and gesture of the figure which within a few years was to make him an outstanding illustrator of the legends".. The Unwelcome Companion: A Street Scene in Cairo is an early painting by John William Waterhouse. Completed in 1873, it was exhibited at the gallery of the Society of British Artists. In 1951, P. Oldman donated it to Towneley Art Gallery; it was misidentified as Spanish Tambourine Girl until a label with the correct name was discovered by Anthony Hobson. As the scenario of The Unwelcome Companion "is obscure", Hobson says that Waterhouse "Had not yet acquired that combination of an appropriate setting with the pose and gesture of the figure which within a few years was to make him an outstanding illustrator of the legends". Waterhouse later depicted the same woman in the same dress in his work, Dancing Girl.. 
Annunciation. Author Name: Pontormo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . The Annunciation is a wall painting by the Italian mannerist artist Jacopo Pontormo, executed in 1527–1528 as part of his commission to decorate the Capponi Chapel in the church of Santa Felicita, Florence.It is frescoed around the window on the wall adjacent to Pontormo's masterpiece, the famous Deposition from the Cross. Pontormo depicts the Annunciation, the revelation to Mary by the Archangel Gabriel that she would conceive a child to be born the Son of God, in a lively composition, with both figures in an elastic contrapposto.. The Annunciation is a wall painting by the Italian mannerist artist Jacopo Pontormo, executed in 1527–1528 as part of his commission to decorate the Capponi Chapel in the church of Santa Felicita, Florence. It is frescoed around the window on the wall adjacent to Pontormo's masterpiece, the famous Deposition from the Cross. Pontormo depicts the Annunciation, the revelation to Mary by the Archangel Gabriel that she would conceive a child to be born the Son of God, in a lively composition, with both figures in an elastic contrapposto.. 
Nu couché. Author Name: Amedeo Modigliani. . . Nu couché (also known in English as Red Nude or Reclining Nude) is a 1917 oil on canvas painting by the Italian artist Amedeo Modigliani. It is one of his most widely reproduced and exhibited paintings.. Nu couché (also known in English as Red Nude or Reclining Nude) is a 1917 oil on canvas painting by the Italian artist Amedeo Modigliani. It is one of his most widely reproduced and exhibited paintings.. 
East Gate/West Gate. Author Name: Sasson Soffer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . East Gate/West Gate, a public sculpture by Sasson Soffer, is located on the Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis campus, which is near downtown Indianapolis, Indiana. This sculpture is on loan from the Indianapolis Museum of Art and was installed on campus on March 22, 2009. It was transported from the Indianapolis Museum of Art to its current location, in front of University Library, from the Indianapolis Museum of Art via helicopter. East Gate/West Gate was constructed in 1973 and consists of stainless steel pipe. Its dimensions are 24'x 40'x 30' and weighs 840 lbs.. East Gate/West Gate, a public sculpture by Sasson Soffer, is located on the Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis campus, which is near downtown Indianapolis, Indiana. This sculpture is on loan from the Indianapolis Museum of Art and was installed on campus on March 22, 2009. It was transported from the Indianapolis Museum of Art to its current location, in front of University Library, from the Indianapolis Museum of Art via helicopter. East Gate/West Gate was constructed in 1973 and consists of stainless steel pipe. Its dimensions are 24'x 40'x 30' and weighs 840 lbs.. 
Vir Heroicus Sublimis. Author Name: Barnett Newman. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . Vir Heroicus Sublimis is a painting by Barnett Newman, an American painter who was a key part of the abstract expressionist movement. Vir Heroicus Sublimis—"man, heroic and sublime" in Latin—attempts to evoke a reaction from its viewers because of its overwhelming scale (his largest canvas yet at the time he released it) and saturated color. The painting is part of the permanent collection of the Museum of Modern Art in New York City.. Vir Heroicus Sublimis is a painting by Barnett Newman, an American painter who was a key part of the abstract expressionist movement. Vir Heroicus Sublimis—"man, heroic and sublime" in Latin—attempts to evoke a reaction from its viewers because of its overwhelming scale (his largest canvas yet at the time he released it) and saturated color. The painting is part of the permanent collection of the Museum of Modern Art in New York City.. 
Marriage à-la-mode: 2. The Tête à Tête. Author Name: William  Hogarth. . . The Tête à Tête is the second canvas in the series of six satirical paintings known as Marriage à-la-mode, painted by William Hogarth.. The Tête à Tête is the second canvas in the series of six satirical paintings known as Marriage à-la-mode, painted by William Hogarth.. 
The Triumph of Science over Death. Author Name: Rizal, Jose. . . The Triumph of Science over Death, also known as Scientia, is a clay sculpture made by José Rizal as a gift to his friend Ferdinand Blumentritt.The statue depicts a young, nude woman with flowing hair, standing on a skull while bearing a torch. The woman symbolizes the ignorance of humankind during the Dark Ages of history, while the torch she bears symbolizes the enlightenment science brings to the world. The woman stands atop a skull, a symbol of death, to signify the victory that humankind aims to achieve by conquering the bane of death through scientific advancement.. The Triumph of Science over Death, also known as Scientia, is a clay sculpture made by José Rizal as a gift to his friend Ferdinand Blumentritt. The statue depicts a young, nude woman with flowing hair, standing on a skull while bearing a torch. The woman symbolizes the ignorance of humankind during the Dark Ages of history, while the torch she bears symbolizes the enlightenment science brings to the world. The woman stands atop a skull, a symbol of death, to signify the victory that humankind aims to achieve by conquering the bane of death through scientific advancement. The original sculpture is now displayed at the Rizal Shrine Museum at Fort Santiago in Intramuros, Manila. A large replica, made of concrete, stands in front of Fernando Calderón Hall of the University of the Philippines College of Medicine along Pedro Gil St. in Ermita, Manila. Another replica is found outside the old Department of Health research facility in Muntinlupa City and will be incorporated into the design of the ongoing expansion of Festival Supermall. The motif of the statue is also used by various medical associations in the Philippines as their symbol, the most notable of which is the Philippine College of Surgeons.. 
The Girl with the Wine Glass. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . The Girl with the Wine Glass (Dame en twee heren) is a 1659-1660 painting by Johannes Vermeer, now in the Herzog Anton Ulrich Museum in Braunschweig.. The Girl with the Wine Glass (Dame en twee heren) is a 1659-1660 painting by Johannes Vermeer, now in the Herzog Anton Ulrich Museum in Braunschweig.. 
The old man. Author Name: Léon Pourtau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Divisionism. . Le vieillard (The old man) is a 1894 painting by Léon Pourtau in the collection of the Museo Soumaya, Mexico City.This work represents an old man in a deserted French street, during a curfew of Prussian occupation. The man walks with crutches, probably with a physical wound. The scene is illuminated by the explosion of a bomb that produces an intense yellow colour that breaks the darkness of the night.. Le vieillard (The old man) is a 1894 painting by Léon Pourtau in the collection of the Museo Soumaya, Mexico City. This work represents an old man in a deserted French street, during a curfew of Prussian occupation. The man walks with crutches, probably with a physical wound. The scene is illuminated by the explosion of a bomb that produces an intense yellow colour that breaks the darkness of the night. This work was produced in the context of the defeat of the French Republic to the German Empire after the Franco-Prussian War. Pourtau was a student of Georges Seurat and this work shows influence of pointillism and divisionism. The technique employed by Pourtau to achieve a contrast between the dark and the distinct colours in the work is impasto oil-painting which involves applying thick layers of paint. It is close in style to German Expressionism.. 
Nativity. Author Name: Masaccio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . This painting, also known as the Berlin Tondo, is a desco da parto, or birthing-tray painted by the Italian Renaissance artist Masaccio, c. 1427–1428, though the work is regarded as from his workshop or by a "follower" by many recent scholars.While the birth of Jesus, and that of his mother, were very common scenes in religious art, and often used contemporary settings and costumes, actual depictions of a contemporary childbirth were very rare.. This painting, also known as the Berlin Tondo, is a desco da parto, or birthing-tray painted by the Italian Renaissance artist Masaccio, c. 1427–1428, though the work is regarded as from his workshop or by a "follower" by many recent scholars. While the birth of Jesus, and that of his mother, were very common scenes in religious art, and often used contemporary settings and costumes, actual depictions of a contemporary childbirth were very rare.. 
The Basket of Bread. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The Basket of Bread is a painting by Spanish surrealist Salvador Dalí. The painting depicts four pieces of bread with butter on them sitting in a basket. One is separated from the others and is half-bitten. The basket sits on a white cloth. The painting resides at the Salvador Dalí Museum, St. Petersburg, Florida.The painting was completed in 1926 when Dalí was twenty-two years old, shortly after he had finished his formal art class in Madrid where he was studying the Dutch Masters. It is among the earliest of several paintings of bread by Dalí; a later example is Basket of Bread (1945).. The Basket of Bread is a painting by Spanish surrealist Salvador Dalí. The painting depicts four pieces of bread with butter on them sitting in a basket. One is separated from the others and is half-bitten. The basket sits on a white cloth. The painting resides at the Salvador Dalí Museum, St. Petersburg, Florida. The painting was completed in 1926 when Dalí was twenty-two years old, shortly after he had finished his formal art class in Madrid where he was studying the Dutch Masters. It is among the earliest of several paintings of bread by Dalí; a later example is Basket of Bread (1945).. 
Blossoming Chestnut Branches. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Blossoming Chestnut Branches was painted by Vincent van Gogh during the artist's Auvers-sur-Oise period in May 1890, the final year of his life.The painting was one of four missing after a high-profile theft from the Foundation E.G. Bührle gallery in Zürich on February 10, 2008. The work was found nine days later in a parked automobile in Zürich, along with one of the other stolen paintings, and was returned undamaged to the gallery.. Blossoming Chestnut Branches was painted by Vincent van Gogh during the artist's Auvers-sur-Oise period in May 1890, the final year of his life. The painting was one of four missing after a high-profile theft from the Foundation E.G. Bührle gallery in Zürich on February 10, 2008. The work was found nine days later in a parked automobile in Zürich, along with one of the other stolen paintings, and was returned undamaged to the gallery.. 
Persephone. Author Name: Toussaint, Armand. . . Persephone is an outdoor sculpture by artist Armand Toussaint created ca. 1840. The work sits within the center of a pool in Holcomb Gardens on the grounds of Butler University in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. The sculpture depicts the Greek goddess Persephone. In 1993 the sculpture was examined by the Save Outdoor Sculpture! program produced by the Smithsonian Institution.. Persephone is an outdoor sculpture by artist Armand Toussaint created ca. 1840. The work sits within the center of a pool in Holcomb Gardens on the grounds of Butler University in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. The sculpture depicts the Greek goddess Persephone. In 1993 the sculpture was examined by the Save Outdoor Sculpture! program produced by the Smithsonian Institution.. 
Portrait of Queen Christina of Denmark. Author Name: Titian. . . Portrait of Queen Christina of Denmark is late work of the Italian Renaissance master Titian, painted in 1555-1556 as an oil on canvas and now housed in the National Museum of Serbia of Belgrade, Serbia. This painting was part of collection of Mary of Hungary (1505–1558) already in 1556. Before the World War II was part of Contini Bonacossi Collection.In National Museum of Serbia is from 1949.. Portrait of Queen Christina of Denmark is late work of the Italian Renaissance master Titian, painted in 1555-1556 as an oil on canvas and now housed in the National Museum of Serbia of Belgrade, Serbia. This painting was part of collection of Mary of Hungary (1505–1558) already in 1556. Before the World War II was part of Contini Bonacossi Collection.In National Museum of Serbia is from 1949.. 
Il bambino cervello. Author Name: Giorgio de Chirico. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Metaphysical_art. . The Child's Brain (Italian: Il bambino cervello) is oil on canvas painting by the Italian artist Giorgio de Chirico who profoundly influenced the surrealists. The painting was completed in 1914 in Italy. It is an example of the Metaphysical art style. The painting measures 81.5 by 65 centimeters and is now housed at Nationalmuseum, Stockholm. The subject of The Child’s Brain is a nude young man, seen from the waist up, who is standing in back of a table with his eyes closed.. The Child's Brain (Italian: Il bambino cervello) is oil on canvas painting by the Italian artist Giorgio de Chirico who profoundly influenced the surrealists. The painting was completed in 1914 in Italy. It is an example of the Metaphysical art style. The painting measures 81.5 by 65 centimeters and is now housed at Nationalmuseum, Stockholm. The subject of The Child’s Brain is a nude young man, seen from the waist up, who is standing in back of a table with his eyes closed.. 
Safe as Mother's Milk: The Hanford Project. Author Name: Kim Stringfellow. . . Safe As Mother's Milk is a multimedia project created by Kim Stringfellow which examines the history of the Hanford Nuclear Reservation. It consists of a website and a physical installation. The project uses declassified documents, news reels, and historical photography to create an unofficial multimedia documentary of the Hanford site. It illustrates the ways in which the Internet can be used to disseminate unofficial histories through multimedia technologies.. Safe As Mother's Milk is a multimedia project created by Kim Stringfellow which examines the history of the Hanford Nuclear Reservation. It consists of a website and a physical installation. The project uses declassified documents, news reels, and historical photography to create an unofficial multimedia documentary of the Hanford site. It illustrates the ways in which the Internet can be used to disseminate unofficial histories through multimedia technologies.. 
The Country Dance. Author Name: Antoine Watteau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Rococo. . The Country Dance is an oil painting by French artist Jean-Antoine Watteau, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. Probably Watteau's earliest painting, created roughly 1706-1710, it depicts a group of quite courtly peasants dancing among the trees.. The Country Dance is an oil painting by French artist Jean-Antoine Watteau, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. Probably Watteau's earliest painting, created roughly 1706-1710, it depicts a group of quite courtly peasants dancing among the trees.. 
Snow Storm. Author Name: J. M. W. Turner. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . Snow Storm, or Snow Storm: Steam-Boat off a Harbour's Mouth, (full title: Snow Storm - Steam-Boat off a Harbour's Mouth Making Signals in Shallow Water, and going by the Lead. The Author was in this Storm on the Night the "Ariel" left Harwich) is a painting by the English artist J. M. W. Turner (1775 - 1851) from 1842.Though panned by many contemporary critics, critic John Ruskin commented in 1843 that it was "one of the very grandest statements of sea-motion, mist and light, that has ever been put on canvas".. Snow Storm, or Snow Storm: Steam-Boat off a Harbour's Mouth, (full title: Snow Storm - Steam-Boat off a Harbour's Mouth Making Signals in Shallow Water, and going by the Lead. The Author was in this Storm on the Night the "Ariel" left Harwich) is a painting by the English artist J. M. W. Turner (1775 - 1851) from 1842. Though panned by many contemporary critics, critic John Ruskin commented in 1843 that it was "one of the very grandest statements of sea-motion, mist and light, that has ever been put on canvas".. 
The Battle of Milvian Bridge. Author Name: Giulio Romano. . . The Battle of the Milvian Bridge, or The Battle at Pons Milvius, is a fresco in one of the rooms that are now known as the Stanze di Raffaello, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. The Battle of Milvian Bridge, located in the Sala di Costantino ("Hall of Constantine"), is by Giulio Romano and other assistants of the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael, who died in 1520. It was most likely painted to Raphael's design between 1520 and 1524.. The Battle of the Milvian Bridge, or The Battle at Pons Milvius, is a fresco in one of the rooms that are now known as the Stanze di Raffaello, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. The Battle of Milvian Bridge, located in the Sala di Costantino ("Hall of Constantine"), is by Giulio Romano and other assistants of the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael, who died in 1520. It was most likely painted to Raphael's design between 1520 and 1524. After the master's death, Giulio Romano worked together with other members of Raphael's workshop to finish the commission to decorate with frescoes the rooms that are now known as the Stanze di Raffaello, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. The Battle of the Milvian Bridge shows the battle that took place on 28 October 312 between the Roman Emperors Constantine I and Maxentius. Legend says that Constantine had a dream where a cross appeared in the heavens; a voice told him he would win the battle of Ponte Milvio if he used the cross as his standard. The cross became his standard and he won the battle, and attributed his victory to the god of Christianity. The Ponte Milvio still stands in Rome in pristine condition; until only a few years ago cars were permitted to use it to cross over the Tiber. It can now be used only by pedestrians.. 
Portrait of a Large Dog. Author Name: George Stubbs. . . Portrait of a Large Dog is an oil painting by George Stubbs. Depicting a dingo, it is the first depiction of an Australian animal in Western art, along with a painting of a kangaroo by Stubbs. It is part of the collection of the National Maritime Museum in Greenwich, London.It was first exhibited by the Society of Artists in London in 1773 together with his painting of a kangaroo, The Kongouro from New Holland. The painting has been on view in recent years at Parham House during public openings.. Portrait of a Large Dog is an oil painting by George Stubbs. Depicting a dingo, it is the first depiction of an Australian animal in Western art, along with a painting of a kangaroo by Stubbs. It is part of the collection of the National Maritime Museum in Greenwich, London. The work was commissioned by Joseph Banks based on his observations of dingoes on the east coast of Australia in 1770 during Lieutenant James Cook's first voyage of discovery. No specimen was collected for use as a subject, unlike its companion painting The Kongouro from New Holland, and it is seen as a fairly general depiction of a dingo, soon superseded by a more accurate one in 1789. The two were the only two paintings that Stubbs did not draw from a live subject. It was first exhibited by the Society of Artists in London in 1773 together with his painting of a kangaroo, The Kongouro from New Holland. The painting has been on view in recent years at Parham House during public openings. In 2012, Portrait of a Large Dog and The Kongouro from New Holland were purchased together at auction for 9.3 million Australian dollars by an undisclosed buyer. An application to take them to Australia was refused by the Department of Culture on the grounds of their national importance. Sir David Attenborough, who had led a campaign to keep both portraits in Britain remarked that it was "exciting news that these two pictures, so important in the history of zoological discovery, are to remain where they were commissioned and painted". The National Gallery of Australia had expressed a strong desire to purchase the portraits. In November 2013 it was announced that a £1.5million donation from the Eyal Ofer Family Foundation will enable the National Maritime Museum in Greenwich, London to acquire the two paintings.. 
The Mass at Bolsena. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Mass at Bolsena is a painting by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael. It was painted between 1512 and 1514  as part of Raphael's commission to decorate with frescoes the rooms that are now known as the Raphael Rooms, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. It is located in the Stanza di Eliodoro, which is named after The Expulsion of Heliodorus from the Temple.. The Mass at Bolsena is a painting by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael. It was painted between 1512 and 1514 as part of Raphael's commission to decorate with frescoes the rooms that are now known as the Raphael Rooms, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. It is located in the Stanza di Eliodoro, which is named after The Expulsion of Heliodorus from the Temple. The Mass at Bolsena depicts an Eucharistic miracle that is said to have taken place in 1263. A Bohemian priest who doubted the doctrine of transubstantiation, was celebrating mass at Bolsena, when the bread of the eucharist began to bleed. The blood that spouted from the host and fell onto the tablecloth in the shape of a cross and he was reconverted. The following year, in 1264, Pope Urban IV instituted the Feast of Corpus Christi to celebrate this miraculous event. The blood stained Corporal of Bolsena is still venerated as a major relic in the Orvieto Cathedral. Present in this painting is a self-portrait of the artist, Raphael, as one of the Swiss Guard in the lower right of the fresco, facing out with bound-up hair. This is one of several instances in which Raphael has placed himself in his paintings. Also shown in the work is Pope Julius II (1443–1513), kneeling at the right, and his daughter Felice della Rovere, shown on the left at the bottom of the steps, in profile, in dark clothes. The four cardinals to the right have also been identified as Leonardo Grosso della Rovere, Raffaello Riario, Tommaso Riario and Agostino Spinola, relatives of Julius. 
Hunting Scene. Author Name: Annibale Carracci. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Hunting (or Hunting Scene) is a painting by Italian artist Annibale Carracci, painted before 1595 and given to Louis XIV by Prince Camillo Pamphili in 1665. It is currently held and exhibited at the Louvre in Paris.. Hunting (or Hunting Scene) is a painting by Italian artist Annibale Carracci, painted before 1595 and given to Louis XIV by Prince Camillo Pamphili in 1665. It is currently held and exhibited at the Louvre in Paris.. 
Allegory of Virtue and Vice. Author Name: Paolo Veronese. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . Allegory of Virtue and Vice, Allegory of Wisdom and Strength or The Choice of Hercules is a painting by Paolo Veronese, produced in 1580 and now in the Frick Collection.. Allegory of Virtue and Vice, Allegory of Wisdom and Strength or The Choice of Hercules is a painting by Paolo Veronese, produced in 1580 and now in the Frick Collection.. 
How The New Museum Committed Suicide With Banality. Author Name: Powhida, William. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Illustration. . How The New Museum Committed Suicide With Banality is a 2009 drawing on paper by William Powhida that the Brooklyn Rail commissioned for the cover of its November 2009 issue. The drawing was released in an edition of 20 prints sold by two galleries that represent Powhida, Schroeder Romero in New York and Charlie James Gallery in Los Angeles.In New York Magazine art critic Jerry Saltz's assessment of 2009, he praised the work for its critique of conflicts of interest in the art world. Saltz emphasized Powhida's role as a social observer, comparing his work to Honoré Daumier.. How The New Museum Committed Suicide With Banality is a 2009 drawing on paper by William Powhida that the Brooklyn Rail commissioned for the cover of its November 2009 issue. The drawing was released in an edition of 20 prints sold by two galleries that represent Powhida, Schroeder Romero in New York and Charlie James Gallery in Los Angeles. The name of the drawing was taken from a post on Artcat publisher James Wagner's blog. The work features caricatures of individuals involved in the controversial New Museum exhibition, including Jeff Koons as Howdy Doody, which Edward Winkleman remarked is ironic considering how much Powhida's work owes to Koons. New Museum trustee at the center of the controversy, Dakis Joannou, bought a print of Powhida’s drawing from his New York dealer for $1,500. In New York Magazine art critic Jerry Saltz's assessment of 2009, he praised the work for its critique of conflicts of interest in the art world. Saltz emphasized Powhida's role as a social observer, comparing his work to Honoré Daumier. Powhida later responded to criticism in an article published on the Art:21 blog.. 
The Surrender of Breda. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . La rendición de Breda (English: The Surrender of Breda, also known as El cuadro de las lanzas or Las lanzas) is a painting by the Spanish Golden Age painter Diego Velázquez. It was completed during the years 1634–35, inspired by Velázquez's visit to Italy with Ambrogio Spinola, the Genoese general who conquered Breda on June 5, 1625. It is considered one of Velázquez's best works. Jan Morris has called it "one of the most Spanish of all pictures".. La rendición de Breda (English: The Surrender of Breda, also known as El cuadro de las lanzas or Las lanzas) is a painting by the Spanish Golden Age painter Diego Velázquez. It was completed during the years 1634–35, inspired by Velázquez's visit to Italy with Ambrogio Spinola, the Genoese general who conquered Breda on June 5, 1625. It is considered one of Velázquez's best works. Jan Morris has called it "one of the most Spanish of all pictures".. 
The Yellow House. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . The Yellow House (Dutch: Het gele huis), alternatively named The Street (Dutch: De straat), is an 1888 oil painting by the 19th-century Dutch Post-Impressionist painter Vincent van Gogh.This title refers to the right wing of the building, 2, Place Lamartine, Arles, France, the house where, on May 1, 1888, Vincent van Gogh rented four rooms, two large ones on the ground floor to serve as atelier and kitchen, and, on the first floor, two smaller ones facing Place Lamartine. The window on the first floor near the corner with both shutters open is that of Van Gogh's guest room, where Paul Gauguin lived for nine weeks from late October 1888. Behind the next window, with one shutter closed, is Van Gogh's Bedroom. The two small rooms at the rear were rented by Van Gogh at a later time.. The Yellow House (Dutch: Het gele huis), alternatively named The Street (Dutch: De straat), is an 1888 oil painting by the 19th-century Dutch Post-Impressionist painter Vincent van Gogh. This title refers to the right wing of the building, 2, Place Lamartine, Arles, France, the house where, on May 1, 1888, Vincent van Gogh rented four rooms, two large ones on the ground floor to serve as atelier and kitchen, and, on the first floor, two smaller ones facing Place Lamartine. The window on the first floor near the corner with both shutters open is that of Van Gogh's guest room, where Paul Gauguin lived for nine weeks from late October 1888. Behind the next window, with one shutter closed, is Van Gogh's Bedroom. The two small rooms at the rear were rented by Van Gogh at a later time. The left wing housed a grocery (French: Comestibles, inscribed on the signboard over the marque). The building suffered various rebuilding, before it was severely damaged in a bombing raid by the Allies on June 25, 1944 and was later demolished. Van Gogh indicated that the restaurant, where he used to have his meals, was in the building painted pink close to the left edge of the painting (28, Place Lamartine). It was run by Widow Venissac, who was also Van Gogh's landlady, and who owned several of the other buildings depicted. To the right side of the Yellow House, the Avenue Montmajour runs down to the two railway bridges. The first line, with a train just passing, served the local connection to Lunel, which is on the opposite (that is, right) bank of river Rhône. The other line was owned by the P.-L.-M. Railway Company (Paris Lyon Méditerranée) In the foreground to the left, there is an indication of the corner of the pedestrian walk, which surrounded one of the public gardens on Place Lamartine. The ditch running up Avenue Montmajour from the left towards the bridges served the gas pipe, which allowed Van Gogh a little later to have gas light installed in his atelier.. 
Woman VI. Author Name: Willem de Kooning. . . In 1953, Woman, a series of abstract works of art painted by Willem de Kooning, shocked the public who visited de Kooning’s third one-man show at the Sidney Janis Gallery in Manhattan. The last painting of this series, Woman VI, is displayed at the Carnegie Museum of Art as part of the Postwar Abstraction collection since the 1955 Carnegie International Exhibition. Willem de Kooning is a pioneer of abstract expressionism in America. This painting is a good example of contemporary art’s transition from European traditional painting to abstract expressionism; Woman is considered de Kooning’s most famous series because it is significant to postwar history and social events, such as the American Feminist Movement in 1960s; de Kooning has a ventured impact on the issue of the representation of . In 1953, Woman, a series of abstract works of art painted by Willem de Kooning, shocked the public who visited de Kooning’s third one-man show at the Sidney Janis Gallery in Manhattan. The last painting of this series, Woman VI, is displayed at the Carnegie Museum of Art as part of the Postwar Abstraction collection since the 1955 Carnegie International Exhibition. Willem de Kooning is a pioneer of abstract expressionism in America. This painting is a good example of contemporary art’s transition from European traditional painting to abstract expressionism; Woman is considered de Kooning’s most famous series because it is significant to postwar history and social events, such as the American Feminist Movement in 1960s; de Kooning has a ventured impact on the issue of the representation of woman during 1950s through the abstract form; and, above all, Woman VI is an irreplaceable work of art for the Postwar Abstraction collection not only for its abstract form and brushwork techniques but because it still has the ability to create multiple interpretations with each viewing.. 
The Love Letter. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . The Love Letter (Dutch: De liefdesbrief) is a 17th-century genre painting by Jan Vermeer. The painting shows a servant maid handing a letter to a young woman with a cittern. The painting is in the Rijksmuseum Amsterdam.. The Love Letter (Dutch: De liefdesbrief) is a 17th-century genre painting by Jan Vermeer. The painting shows a servant maid handing a letter to a young woman with a cittern. The painting is in the Rijksmuseum Amsterdam.. 
St. Jerome in His Study. Author Name: Antonello da Messina. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . St. Jerome in His Study is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Antonello da Messina, thought to have been completed around 1460–1475. It is in the collection of the National Gallery, London.The picture was painted by Antonello during his Venetian sojourn, and was the property of Antonio Pasqualino.. St. Jerome in His Study is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Antonello da Messina, thought to have been completed around 1460–1475. It is in the collection of the National Gallery, London. The picture was painted by Antonello during his Venetian sojourn, and was the property of Antonio Pasqualino.. 
Le Téléscope. Author Name: René Magritte. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Surrealism. . The Telescope (French: Le Téléscope) is a 1963 oil on canvas painting by René Magritte.The painting depicts a window through which a partly clouded blue sky can be seen. However, the right side of the window is partially open, revealing a black background where the viewer would expect to see a continuation of the clouds and sky.. The Telescope (French: Le Téléscope) is a 1963 oil on canvas painting by René Magritte. The painting depicts a window through which a partly clouded blue sky can be seen. However, the right side of the window is partially open, revealing a black background where the viewer would expect to see a continuation of the clouds and sky.. 
Untitled. Author Name: Mark Rothko. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . Untitled is a painting by the Russian-American Abstract expressionist artist Mark Rothko. It was painted in 1952.In common with Rothko's other works from this period, Untitled consists of large expanses of colour delineated by uneven, hazy shades.. Untitled is a painting by the Russian-American Abstract expressionist artist Mark Rothko. It was painted in 1952.In common with Rothko's other works from this period, Untitled consists of large expanses of colour delineated by uneven, hazy shades.. 
Mont Sainte-Victoire and the Viaduct of the Arc River Valley. Author Name: Paul Cézanne. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . The Mont Sainte-Victoire and the Viaduct of the Arc River Valley is an 1882—85 painting by the French artist Paul Cézanne. It is in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.. The Mont Sainte-Victoire and the Viaduct of the Arc River Valley is an 1882—85 painting by the French artist Paul Cézanne. It is in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.. 
Monument to the Revolution. Author Name: Dušan Džamonja. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Modernism. . Monument to the Revolution (Serbo-Croatian: Spomenik Revoluciji) is a World War II memorial sculpture by Dušan Džamonja, located at Mrakovica, one of the highest peaks of Kozara mountain, Republic of Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is dedicated to the fierce battle and 2.500 Yugoslav partisan fighters and 68.500 mostly Serb civilians killed or deported in Ustaše concentration camps during German-Ustaše-Hungarian Kozara Offensive from June to July 1942.. Monument to the Revolution (Serbo-Croatian: Spomenik Revoluciji) is a World War II memorial sculpture by Dušan Džamonja, located at Mrakovica, one of the highest peaks of Kozara mountain, Republic of Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is dedicated to the fierce battle and 2.500 Yugoslav partisan fighters and 68.500 mostly Serb civilians killed or deported in Ustaše concentration camps during German-Ustaše-Hungarian Kozara Offensive from June to July 1942. Initiative for the Monument construction began in 1969 and Dušan Džamonja won the first prize for his project. Construction of the monument was completed in 1972. Džamonja himself described the Monument as the game of light and darkness; this cylindrical-shaped Monument is composed of twenty vertical segments and every of them is characterized by deep steel-covered bulges (positives) and hollows (negatives). While negatives symbolize death, positives represent victory and life. Horizontally sited concrete blocs are the symbols of enemy forces who are trying to destroy life and victory but are unsuccessful. Other parts of the memorial complex are the Museum and the Memorial wall with the names of 9.921 Yugoslav partisans killed in fightings on Kozara during the World War II in Yugoslavia.. 
Grande Odalisque. Author Name: Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . Grande Odalisque, also known as Une Odalisque or La Grande Odalisque, is an oil painting of 1814 by Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres depicting an odalisque, or concubine. Ingres' contemporaries considered the work to signify Ingres' break from Neoclassicism, indicating a shift toward exotic Romanticism.Grande Odalisque attracted wide criticism when it was first shown. It has been especially noted for the elongated proportions and lack of anatomical realism. The work is displayed in the Louvre, Paris.. Grande Odalisque, also known as Une Odalisque or La Grande Odalisque, is an oil painting of 1814 by Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres depicting an odalisque, or concubine. Ingres' contemporaries considered the work to signify Ingres' break from Neoclassicism, indicating a shift toward exotic Romanticism. Grande Odalisque attracted wide criticism when it was first shown. It has been especially noted for the elongated proportions and lack of anatomical realism. The work is displayed in the Louvre, Paris.. 
The Geographer. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . The Geographer is a painting created by Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer in 1668–1669, and is now in the collection of the Städelsches Kunstinstitut museum in Frankfurt, Germany.. The Geographer is a painting created by Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer in 1668–1669, and is now in the collection of the Städelsches Kunstinstitut museum in Frankfurt, Germany.. 
Saints Christopher, Jerome and Louis of Toulouse. Author Name: Giovanni Bellini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . Saints Christopher, Jerome and Louis of Toulouse is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Giovanni Bellini, executed in 1513, and housed in the church of San Giovanni Crisostomo, Venice.. Saints Christopher, Jerome and Louis of Toulouse is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Giovanni Bellini, executed in 1513, and housed in the church of San Giovanni Crisostomo, Venice.. 
Au Lapin Agile. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Au Lapin Agile, is a 1905 painting by Pablo Picasso. The harlequin is a self-portrait of the artist. The woman represents his lover Germaine Pichot, formerly the obsession of Carlos Casagemas, a friend of Picasso who committed suicide in 1901 because of an unreturned love for Pichot. In 1907 Pichot appeared as one of the models in Picasso's Les Demoiselles d'Avignon.. Au Lapin Agile, is a 1905 painting by Pablo Picasso. The harlequin is a self-portrait of the artist. The woman represents his lover Germaine Pichot, formerly the obsession of Carlos Casagemas, a friend of Picasso who committed suicide in 1901 because of an unreturned love for Pichot. In 1907 Pichot appeared as one of the models in Picasso's Les Demoiselles d'Avignon.. 
Melancholy. Author Name: Edvard Munch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Expressionism. . Melancholy (Norwegian: Melankoli ; also known as Jappe on the Beach, Jealousy or Evening) is a painting by the Norwegian artist, Edvard Munch. Munch painted multiple variant versions of the expressionist work in oil on canvas during the period 1891–93. The painting depicts a man with his head resting in his hand in a pensive mood at the edge of a shoreline.. Melancholy (Norwegian: Melankoli ; also known as Jappe on the Beach, Jealousy or Evening) is a painting by the Norwegian artist, Edvard Munch. Munch painted multiple variant versions of the expressionist work in oil on canvas during the period 1891–93. The painting depicts a man with his head resting in his hand in a pensive mood at the edge of a shoreline. The inspiration for the painting was an unhappy romantic affair that Munch's friend, Jappe Nilssen, was involved in. In Munch's painting the figure of the melancholy man is at the right, and his mood is represented by the undulating shoreline and skylines that extend toward the left. Critics suggest that there are also erotic allusions, perhaps in the presence of the moon reflected on the water. The landscape represents Asgardstrand's beach where Munch spent his summers from 1889. Melancholy was exhibited in 1891 at the Autumn Exhibition in Oslo. The artist and journalist Christian Krohg credited it as the first Symbolist painting by a Norwegian artist. Munch painted more than one version of the composition in 1891. A version completed in 1892–93 is in the National Gallery, Oslo.. 
Soldiers and Sailors Monument. Author Name: Rudolf Schwarz. . . The Soldiers and Sailors Monument is a work of public art in Delphi, Indiana in the United States. It is located at the Carroll County Courthouse, and comprises the collection on the National Register of Historic Places listing making up the courthouse and the square.. The Soldiers and Sailors Monument is a work of public art in Delphi, Indiana in the United States. It is located at the Carroll County Courthouse, and comprises the collection on the National Register of Historic Places listing making up the courthouse and the square.. 
Akbar's Garden. Author Name: Kelly, Lee. . . Akbar's Garden is an outdoor 1983–1984 aluminum sculpture by Lee Kelly, installed at the University of Oregon campus in Eugene, Oregon, in the United States.. Akbar's Garden is an outdoor 1983–1984 aluminum sculpture by Lee Kelly, installed at the University of Oregon campus in Eugene, Oregon, in the United States.. 
View of Paris from Vincent's Room. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . View of Paris from Vincent's Room in the Rue Lepic (Dutch: Gezicht op de daken van Parijs) is a painting by Dutch post-impressionist artist Vincent van Gogh.. View of Paris from Vincent's Room in the Rue Lepic (Dutch: Gezicht op de daken van Parijs) is a painting by Dutch post-impressionist artist Vincent van Gogh.. 
Autumn Leaves. Author Name: Sir John Everett Millais, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pre-Raphaelite_Brotherhood. . Autumn Leaves (1856) is a painting by John Everett Millais exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1856. It was described by the critic John Ruskin as "the first instance of a perfectly painted twilight." Millais' wife Effie wrote that he had intended to create a picture that was "full of beauty and without a subject".The painting has been seen as one of the earliest influences on the development of the aesthetic movement.. Autumn Leaves (1856) is a painting by John Everett Millais exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1856. It was described by the critic John Ruskin as "the first instance of a perfectly painted twilight." Millais' wife Effie wrote that he had intended to create a picture that was "full of beauty and without a subject". The picture depicts four girls in the twilight collecting and raking together fallen leaves in a garden. They are making a bonfire, but the fire itself is invisible, only smoke emerging from between the leaves. The two girls on the left, modelled on Millais' sisters-in-law Alice and Sophy Gray, are portrayed in middle-class clothing of the era; the two on the right are in rougher, working class clothing. The painting has been seen as one of the earliest influences on the development of the aesthetic movement.. 
The Young Bull. Author Name: Paulus Potter. . . The Young Bull (Dutch: De jonge stier) or The Bull (Dutch: De stier) is an oil painting of a bull by Paulus Potter. It is in the collection of the Mauritshuis in The Hague in the Netherlands.At about life-size, this is an unusually monumental animal painting that challenges the hierarchy of genres by its almost heroic treatment of an animal. The large size allows space for very detailed realism, including flies, that was both admired and criticised, especially in the 19th century.. The Young Bull (Dutch: De jonge stier) or The Bull (Dutch: De stier) is an oil painting of a bull by Paulus Potter. It is in the collection of the Mauritshuis in The Hague in the Netherlands. At about life-size, this is an unusually monumental animal painting that challenges the hierarchy of genres by its almost heroic treatment of an animal. The large size allows space for very detailed realism, including flies, that was both admired and criticised, especially in the 19th century. The painting is signed and dated 1647, meaning that Potter, who was born in November 1625, was only 22 when he completed it; he died in 1654, before he reached 30. The painting was highly admired in the 18th and 19th centuries; in the 1870s the French artist and critic Eugène Fromentin asserted confidently that it, Rembrandt's The Night Watch and his The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Nicolaes Tulp (also in the Mauritshuis) were the three most famous paintings in the Netherlands. The painting was enlarged by Potter, who added extra strips of canvas on both sides and at the top to his original composition, which just included the bull itself. The village in the background is Rijswijk, between Delft and The Hague. Though paintings of animals in landscape were Potter's speciality, this is the largest apart from his single life-size equestrian portrait, and most are far smaller. The cow was a symbol of prosperity to the Dutch, hitherto overlooked in art, and apart from the horse by far the most commonly shown animal in Dutch Golden Age painting; goats were used to indicate Italy. This is an enormous and famous portrait which Napoleon took to Paris (it later returned) though livestock analysts have noted from the depiction of the various parts of the anatomy that it appears to be a composite of studies of six different animals of widely different ages. Like the equally life-size bird in The Threatened Swan, the bull can also function as a symbol of the Dutch Republic. Probably not until Whistlejacket, a painting of an English racehorse of a century later, is an equally monumental animal portrait to be found.. 
Entry of the Crusaders in Constantinople. Author Name: Eugène Delacroix. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . The Entry of the Crusaders in Constantinople (Entrée des Croisés à Constantinople) or "The Crusaders Entering Constantinople" is a large painting by Eugène Delacroix. It was commissioned by Louis-Philippe in 1838, and completed in 1840. Painted in oil on canvas, it is in the collection of the Musée du Louvre in Paris.. The Entry of the Crusaders in Constantinople (Entrée des Croisés à Constantinople) or "The Crusaders Entering Constantinople" is a large painting by Eugène Delacroix. It was commissioned by Louis-Philippe in 1838, and completed in 1840. Painted in oil on canvas, it is in the collection of the Musée du Louvre in Paris. Delacroix's painting depicts a famous episode of the Fourth Crusade (12 April 1204), in which the Crusaders abandoned their plan to invade Muslim Egypt and Jerusalem, and instead sacked the Christian (Eastern Orthodox) city of Constantinople, the capital of the Byzantine Empire. The painting shows Baldwin I of Constantinople at the head of a procession through the streets of the city following the assault; on all sides are the city's inhabitants who beg for mercy. The painting's luminosity and use of colour owes much to Delacroix's study of the Old Masters, such as Paolo Veronese. The painting was exhibited in the Salon of 1841, where the painterly romanticism of its style was controversial; Le Constitutionnel deplored "the confused and strangled composition, the dull earthy colours and the lack of definite contours", but Baudelaire appreciated the work's "abstraction faite".. 
The Fountain of Indolence. Author Name: J. M. W. Turner. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . The Fountain of Indolence is an oil painting by the English artist J. M. W. Turner. First exhibited in 1834, it is now in the collection of the Beaverbrook Art Gallery in Fredericton, New Brunswick, Canada.. The Fountain of Indolence is an oil painting by the English artist J. M. W. Turner. First exhibited in 1834, it is now in the collection of the Beaverbrook Art Gallery in Fredericton, New Brunswick, Canada.. 
Iroquois. Author Name: Mark di Suvero. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . Iroquois is a sculpture by American artist Mark di Suvero, owned by the Association for Public Art (formerly the Fairmount Park Art Association). The artwork is located at the Benjamin Franklin Parkway, at Eakins Oval and 24th Street, Philadelphia, United States. Iroquois is one of 51 sculptures included in the Association's for Public Art's Museum Without Walls: AUDIO™ interpretive audio program for Philadelphia's outdoor sculpture.. Iroquois is a sculpture by American artist Mark di Suvero, owned by the Association for Public Art (formerly the Fairmount Park Art Association). The artwork is located at the Benjamin Franklin Parkway, at Eakins Oval and 24th Street, Philadelphia, United States. Iroquois is one of 51 sculptures included in the Association's for Public Art's Museum Without Walls: AUDIO™ interpretive audio program for Philadelphia's outdoor sculpture.. 
The Conjurer. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . The Conjurer is by Dutch painter Hieronymus Bosch and/or his workshop, executed around 1502.There are five versions of this painting and one engraving, but most experts believe the most reliable copy is part of the collection of the Musée Municipal in St.-Germain-en-Laye, which is kept locked in a safe and loaned out on a limited basis for special exhibitions in France and abroad. On 1 December 1978 the painting was stolen from the museum and returned on 2 February 1979.. The Conjurer is by Dutch painter Hieronymus Bosch and/or his workshop, executed around 1502. There are five versions of this painting and one engraving, but most experts believe the most reliable copy is part of the collection of the Musée Municipal in St.-Germain-en-Laye, which is kept locked in a safe and loaned out on a limited basis for special exhibitions in France and abroad. On 1 December 1978 the painting was stolen from the museum and returned on 2 February 1979. The painting comes from the bequest of Louis Alexandre Ducastel, a notary at Saint Germain en Laye from 1813, who was also city council member and mayor in August 1835 and (provisionally) in 1839. The collection seems especially to have been formed by his father John Alexander Ducastel, a painter and collector.. 
Challenge  Sculpture. Author Name: Arango, Salvador. . . The Challenge Sculpture (Spanish: Reto) is a monument of 8 meters located in a park called The Artist in Itagüi-Colombia.. The Challenge Sculpture (Spanish: Reto) is a monument of 8 meters located in a park called The Artist in Itagüi-Colombia.. 
Stephen Neal. Author Name: Sorensen, Clara. . . Stephen Neal is a public artwork by Indiana artist Clara Barth Leonard. It is located in the Indiana Statehouse, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. The subject of the work is Stephen Neal, a member of the Indiana State Legislature and a Judge of the Boone County Circuit Court during the mid-to-late-19th century, as well as being the author of the original draft of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution. The bronze bust is located on the second floor of the Indiana Statehouse  in a waist-high limestone niche, and faces West towards North Senate Avenue.. Stephen Neal is a public artwork by Indiana artist Clara Barth Leonard. It is located in the Indiana Statehouse, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. The subject of the work is Stephen Neal, a member of the Indiana State Legislature and a Judge of the Boone County Circuit Court during the mid-to-late-19th century, as well as being the author of the original draft of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution. The bronze bust is located on the second floor of the Indiana Statehouse in a waist-high limestone niche, and faces West towards North Senate Avenue.. 
Manfred on the Jungfrau. Author Name: Ford Madox Brown. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pre-Raphaelite_Brotherhood. . Manfred on the Jungfrau is an 1842 oil-on-canvas artwork by Ford Madox Brown. It is inspired by Act I Scene II of Lord Byron's famous dramatic poem Manfred, probably most particularly the following:The painting depicts the central character of the poem, Manfred, who is a noble and wealthy aristocrat, about to toss himself from the heights of the Jungfrau mountain. Manfred is, however, saved from death by a chamois hunter who happens upon him, and who is seen approaching in the background of the painting, clad in fur. The detail seen on Manfred's face shows his deep psychological agony, and the reason for his desire for suicide.. Manfred on the Jungfrau is an 1842 oil-on-canvas artwork by Ford Madox Brown. It is inspired by Act I Scene II of Lord Byron's famous dramatic poem Manfred, probably most particularly the following: The painting depicts the central character of the poem, Manfred, who is a noble and wealthy aristocrat, about to toss himself from the heights of the Jungfrau mountain. Manfred is, however, saved from death by a chamois hunter who happens upon him, and who is seen approaching in the background of the painting, clad in fur. The detail seen on Manfred's face shows his deep psychological agony, and the reason for his desire for suicide. In 1837, John Martin painted an artwork of the same name. Martin's version was a watercolour, and focused more on the Jungfrau mountain than on the detail of Manfred and the hunter.. 
Jason and Medea. Author Name: John William Waterhouse. . . Jason and Medea is an oil painting in the Pre-Raphaelite style created by John William Waterhouse in 1907.The painting depicts the Colchian princess, Medea, preparing a magic potion for Jason to enable him to complete the tasks set for him by her father, Aeëtes.Medea's determined facial expression shows a characterization consistent with that of Greek literature, particularly Euripides' tragedy Medea (play).The painting is thematically and visually similar to The Magic Circle (Waterhouse painting).. Jason and Medea is an oil painting in the Pre-Raphaelite style created by John William Waterhouse in 1907. The painting depicts the Colchian princess, Medea, preparing a magic potion for Jason to enable him to complete the tasks set for him by her father, Aeëtes. Medea's determined facial expression shows a characterization consistent with that of Greek literature, particularly Euripides' tragedy Medea (play). The painting is thematically and visually similar to The Magic Circle (Waterhouse painting).. 
The Wounded Man. Author Name: Gustave Courbet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Wounded Man (French: L'Homme blessé) is an 1844-1854 self-portrait by Gustave Courbet.. The Wounded Man (French: L'Homme blessé) is an 1844-1854 self-portrait by Gustave Courbet.. 
Alfonso d'Avalos Addressing his Troops. Author Name: Titian. . . Alfonso d'Avalos Addressing his Troops (Spanish: Alocución del Marqués del Vasto) is a portrait of Alfonso d'Avalos by Titian, painted in around 1540 and now held at the Museo del Prado in Madrid. Alfonso d'Avalos, Marquise del Vasto, was a noble Neapolitan, descended from a family of Castilian origin. He participated in the Battle of Pavia and the conquest of Tunis in 1535. In 1538 he was appointed governor of Milan. Military failures caused a subsequent falling out of favor with the Emperor Charles V.. Alfonso d'Avalos Addressing his Troops (Spanish: Alocución del Marqués del Vasto) is a portrait of Alfonso d'Avalos by Titian, painted in around 1540 and now held at the Museo del Prado in Madrid. Alfonso d'Avalos, Marquise del Vasto, was a noble Neapolitan, descended from a family of Castilian origin. He participated in the Battle of Pavia and the conquest of Tunis in 1535. In 1538 he was appointed governor of Milan. Military failures caused a subsequent falling out of favor with the Emperor Charles V. This work is both a portrait of the Marquis del Vasto and a picture of history narrating an incident that occurred in 1537. The Spanish troops stationed in Milan began an attempted mutiny over not receiving their pay, but the conflict was suppressed by the Marquis' eloquent speech to the men that inspired loyalty and guaranteed their pay given patience. He, having to leave for affairs elsewhere, left his son with the troops as a guarantee they would be paid. The marquis contracted Titian to paint the scene, depicting his son as a page holding his helmet for him during the speech. The composition is based on classical models, such as the reliefs of the Arch of Constantine and numerous Numismatic works. Titian features the General in an elevated position, addressing his men, and emphasizing his words, as advised classical oratory manuals, with elevation of the right arm. The work was commissioned in 1539 by the Marquis himself, during a trip to Venice. His first public exhibition was in Milan during 1541, taking advantage of the visit of Emperor Charles. It was subsequently acquired by the Gonzaga family, the Dukes of Mantua, and finally by King Charles I of England. When this King was executed his assets were auctioned, and the painting (like others of the same king) was acquired by Philip IV of Spain. In 1828 Fernando VII ceded it to the collection to the Museo del Prado.. 
The Creation of Adam. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Creation of Adam is a fresco painting by Michelangelo, which forms part of the Sistine Chapel's ceiling, painted c. 1511–1512. It illustrates the Biblical creation narrative from the Book of Genesis in which God breathes life into Adam, the first man. The fresco is part of a complex iconographic scheme and is chronologically the fourth in the series of panels depicting episodes from Genesis. It is the most well-known of the Sistine Chapel fresco panels, and its fame as a masterpiece of art is rivaled only by Leonardo da Vinci's Mona Lisa.. The Creation of Adam is a fresco painting by Michelangelo, which forms part of the Sistine Chapel's ceiling, painted c. 1511–1512. It illustrates the Biblical creation narrative from the Book of Genesis in which God breathes life into Adam, the first man. The fresco is part of a complex iconographic scheme and is chronologically the fourth in the series of panels depicting episodes from Genesis. It is the most well-known of the Sistine Chapel fresco panels, and its fame as a masterpiece of art is rivaled only by Leonardo da Vinci's Mona Lisa. The image of the near-touching hands of God and Adam has become iconic of humanity[citation needed] and has been reproduced in countless imitations and parodies. Leonardo da Vinci's Last Supper and Michelangelo's Creation of Adam are the most replicated religious paintings of all time.[citation needed]. 
Water Willow. Author Name: Dante Gabriel Rossetti. . . Water Willow is an 1871 oil painting by Dante Gabriel Rossetti. It depicts Jane Morris in the river landscape near Kelmscott Manor, with the manor in the left background and Kelmscott Church below the hill to the right.. Water Willow is an 1871 oil painting by Dante Gabriel Rossetti. It depicts Jane Morris in the river landscape near Kelmscott Manor, with the manor in the left background and Kelmscott Church below the hill to the right.. 
George Washington. Author Name: Greenough, Horatio. . . George Washington (1840) is a massive sculpture by Horatio Greenough commissioned for the centennial of U.S President George Washington's birth in February 22, 1732.. George Washington (1840) is a massive sculpture by Horatio Greenough commissioned for the centennial of U.S President George Washington's birth in February 22, 1732.. 
The Death of Major Peirson. Author Name: John Singleton Copley. . . The Death of Major Peirson, 6 January 1781 is a 1783 large oil painting by John Singleton Copley. It depicts the death of Major Francis Peirson at the Battle of Jersey on 6 January 1781.The Battle of Jersey was the last French attempt to seize the island of Jersey, and one of the last battles with invading forces from a foreign nation in the British Isles. The invasion was organised privately by Baron Philippe de Rullecourt but funded and supplied by the French government, and was intended to remove the threat that British naval vessel based in Jersey posed to American ships in the American Revolutionary War.. The Death of Major Peirson, 6 January 1781 is a 1783 large oil painting by John Singleton Copley. It depicts the death of Major Francis Peirson at the Battle of Jersey on 6 January 1781. The Battle of Jersey was the last French attempt to seize the island of Jersey, and one of the last battles with invading forces from a foreign nation in the British Isles. The invasion was organised privately by Baron Philippe de Rullecourt but funded and supplied by the French government, and was intended to remove the threat that British naval vessel based in Jersey posed to American ships in the American Revolutionary War. Approximately 1,000 French soldiers, commanded by de Rullecourt and an Indian, Mir Sayyad, landed at La Rocque, Grouville, overnight on 5–6 January. They occupied St Helier early on the morning of 6 January. They captured the Lieutenant Governor of Jersey Moses Corbet, in bed. Although he surrendered, Peirson, the 24-year-old commander of around 2,000 troops of the British garrison, refused to surrender. As Peirson organised a counter-attack, a French shot killed him. Lieutenant Philippe Dumaresq of the Jersey militia took command of the British forces, which comprised detachments of the 95th Regiment of Foot, 78th Highlanders, and Jersey Militia. The British forces quickly overwhelmed the French, most of whom surrendered. John Boydell, a successful engraver and publisher and Aldermen of the City of London, commissioned Copley to paint a large 251.5 centimetres (99.0 in) by 365.8 centimetres (144.0 in), painting. The scene looks towards the final French resistance in Royal Square, viewed along what is now Peirson Place, with the French soldiers taking their last stand around the statue of George II. Further British reinforcements are visible on the hill at the top left. The statue and some of the buildings depicted still stand (some with bullet holes caused by the battle). Although Peirson was killed in the early stages of the battle, the painting shows Peirson (at the centre of the painting under the large Union Flag, supported by other officers), and being shot down leading the final charge, giving him a more heroic role and fate. To the left, his black servant Pompey avenges his master by shooting the sniper. It is believed that the depictions of the officers supporting the stricken Peirson are true portraits; the black servant of auctioneer James Christie was the model for Pompey, although it is unclear whether a black servant played a role (there is no suggestion in contemporaneous sources). Copley modeled the civilians fleeing to the right on his wife, family nurse and children. Peirson became a national hero, and the painting drew crowds when it was first exhibited at 28 Haymarket in May 1784, with admission charged at 1 shilling. The Tate Gallery purchased the painting in 1864. Today, a copy appears on the 10 Jersey pound note.. 
Large Arch. Author Name: Henry Moore. . Author Movement: Bronze Sculpture, Modernism. . Large Arch is an outdoor sculpture by British sculptor Henry Moore. It was installed in 1971 and is located in the outdoor plaza of the Cleo Rogers Memorial Library in Columbus, Indiana. Xenia and J. Irwin Miller commissioned the sculpture and gave it to the library. The sculpture is nearly 20 feet tall and is made of sandcast bronze that has been patinated.. Large Arch is an outdoor sculpture by British sculptor Henry Moore. It was installed in 1971 and is located in the outdoor plaza of the Cleo Rogers Memorial Library in Columbus, Indiana. Xenia and J. Irwin Miller commissioned the sculpture and gave it to the library. The sculpture is nearly 20 feet tall and is made of sandcast bronze that has been patinated.. 
Vision after the Sermon. Author Name: Paul Gauguin. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Vision after the Sermon (Jacob Wrestling with the Angel) is an oil painting by French artist Paul Gauguin, completed in 1888. It is now in the National Gallery of Scotland, Edinburgh. It depicts a scene from the Bible in which Jacob wrestles an angel. It depicts this indirectly, through a vision that the women depicted see after a sermon in church. It was painted in Pont-Aven, Brittany, France.. Vision after the Sermon (Jacob Wrestling with the Angel) is an oil painting by French artist Paul Gauguin, completed in 1888. It is now in the National Gallery of Scotland, Edinburgh. It depicts a scene from the Bible in which Jacob wrestles an angel. It depicts this indirectly, through a vision that the women depicted see after a sermon in church. It was painted in Pont-Aven, Brittany, France.. 
Adoration of the Child. Author Name: Antonio da Correggio. . Author Movement: Mannerism. . The Adoration of the Child is an oil on canvas painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Correggio, dating from around 1526 and housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence, Italy.. The Adoration of the Child is an oil on canvas painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Correggio, dating from around 1526 and housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence, Italy.. 
Dr. John McLoughlin. Author Name: Alexander Phimister Proctor. . . Dr. John McLoughlin is an outdoor 1953 bronze sculpture of John McLoughlin by Alexander Phimister Proctor and completed by his son Gifford MacGregor Proctor, installed at the Oregon State Capitol grounds in Salem, Oregon, United States. The statue was created by A. Proctor, who died in 1950, and finished by G. Proctor before its dedication in 1953. McLoughlin is depicted wearing a suit and cape, holding a top hat in his left hand. Bedi-Rassy Art Foundry served as the sculpture's founder.. Dr. John McLoughlin is an outdoor 1953 bronze sculpture of John McLoughlin by Alexander Phimister Proctor and completed by his son Gifford MacGregor Proctor, installed at the Oregon State Capitol grounds in Salem, Oregon, United States. The statue was created by A. Proctor, who died in 1950, and finished by G. Proctor before its dedication in 1953. McLoughlin is depicted wearing a suit and cape, holding a top hat in his left hand. Bedi-Rassy Art Foundry served as the sculpture's founder.. 
Madonna and Child. Author Name: Duccio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Gothic_art. . This work of art was painted by one of the most influential artists of the late 13th and early 14th century, Duccio di Buoninsegna. This iconic image of Madonna and Child, seen throughout the history of western art, holds significant value in terms of stylistic innovations of religious subject matter that would continue to evolve for centuries.. This work of art was painted by one of the most influential artists of the late 13th and early 14th century, Duccio di Buoninsegna. This iconic image of Madonna and Child, seen throughout the history of western art, holds significant value in terms of stylistic innovations of religious subject matter that would continue to evolve for centuries.. 
Contarini Madonna. Author Name: Giovanni Bellini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Contarini Madonna (Italian: Madonna Contarini) is an oil painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini, dating from c. 1475-1480 now in the Gallerie dell'Accademia in Venice.. The Contarini Madonna (Italian: Madonna Contarini) is an oil painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini, dating from c. 1475-1480 now in the Gallerie dell'Accademia in Venice.. 
The Old Guitarist. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The Old Guitarist is an oil painting by Pablo Picasso created late 1903–early 1904. It depicts an old, blind, haggard man with threadbare clothing weakly hunched over his guitar, playing in the streets of Barcelona, Spain. It is currently on display in the Art Institute of Chicago as part of the Helen Birch Bartlett Memorial Collection.. The Old Guitarist is an oil painting by Pablo Picasso created late 1903–early 1904. It depicts an old, blind, haggard man with threadbare clothing weakly hunched over his guitar, playing in the streets of Barcelona, Spain. It is currently on display in the Art Institute of Chicago as part of the Helen Birch Bartlett Memorial Collection. At the time of The Old Guitarist’s creation, Modernism, Impressionism, Post-Impressionism, and Symbolism had merged and created an overall movement called Expressionism which greatly influenced Picasso’s style. Furthermore, El Greco, Picasso’s poor standard of living, and the suicide of a dear friend influenced Picasso’s style at the time which came to be known as his Blue Period. Several x-rays, infrared images and examinations by curators revealed three different figures hidden behind the old guitarist.. 
The Fall of Phaeton. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Fall of Phaeton is a painting by the Flemish master Peter Paul Rubens, featuring the ancient Greek myth of Phaeton (Phaethon), a recurring theme in visual arts. Rubens chose to depict the myth at the height of its action, with the thunderbolts hurled by Zeus to the right. The thunderbolts provide the light contrast to facilitate the display of horror on the faces of Phaeton, the horses and other figures while preserving the darkness of the event. The butterfly winged female figures represent the hours and seasons, who react in terror as the night and day cycle becomes disrupted. The great astrological circle that arches the heavens is also disrupted. The assemblage of bodies form a diagonal oval in the center, separating dark and light sides of the canvas. The bodies are arranged so as. The Fall of Phaeton is a painting by the Flemish master Peter Paul Rubens, featuring the ancient Greek myth of Phaeton (Phaethon), a recurring theme in visual arts. Rubens chose to depict the myth at the height of its action, with the thunderbolts hurled by Zeus to the right. The thunderbolts provide the light contrast to facilitate the display of horror on the faces of Phaeton, the horses and other figures while preserving the darkness of the event. The butterfly winged female figures represent the hours and seasons, who react in terror as the night and day cycle becomes disrupted. The great astrological circle that arches the heavens is also disrupted. The assemblage of bodies form a diagonal oval in the center, separating dark and light sides of the canvas. The bodies are arranged so as to assist the viewer’s travel continually around that oval. Rubens painted The Fall of Phaeton in Rome and the painting was probably reworked later around 1606/1608. It has been housed in the National Gallery of Art since 5 January 1990. Rubens also painted other Greek mythological subjects, such as The Fall of Icarus, Perseus Freeing Andromeda, and The Judgement of Paris.. 
Charles I. Author Name: Le Sueur, Hubert. . . The equestrian statue of Charles I in Charing Cross, London, is a work by the French sculptor Hubert Le Sueur, probably cast in 1633.Its location at Charing Cross is on the former site of the most elaborate of the Eleanor crosses erected by Edward I, which had stood for three and a half centuries until 1647. Charing Cross is used to define the centre of London and a plaque by the statue indicates that road signage distances are measured from this point. The statue faces down Whitehall towards Charles I's place of execution at Banqueting House.. The equestrian statue of Charles I in Charing Cross, London, is a work by the French sculptor Hubert Le Sueur, probably cast in 1633. Its location at Charing Cross is on the former site of the most elaborate of the Eleanor crosses erected by Edward I, which had stood for three and a half centuries until 1647. Charing Cross is used to define the centre of London and a plaque by the statue indicates that road signage distances are measured from this point. The statue faces down Whitehall towards Charles I's place of execution at Banqueting House. The first Renaissance-style equestrian statue in England, it was commissioned by Charles's Lord High Treasurer Richard Weston for the garden of his country house in Roehampton, Surrey (now in South London). Following the English Civil War the statue was sold to a metalsmith to be broken down, but he hid it until the Restoration. It was installed in its current, far more prominent location in the centre of London in 1675, and the elaborately carved plinth dates from that time.. 
A Midday. Author Name: Antipova, Evgenia. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Saint_Petersburg_Union_of_Artists. . A Midday is a painting by Evgenia Antipova (Russian: Евгения Петровна Антипова)(1917-2009), well-known Russian painter and graphic artist, a member of the Saint Petersburg Union of Artists (before 1992 the Leningrad branch of Union of Artists of Russian Federation), who lived and worked in Saint Petersburg (former Leningrad), regarded as one of the representatives of the Leningrad School of Painting  most famous for her landscape and still life painting.. A Midday is a painting by Evgenia Antipova (Russian: Евгения Петровна Антипова)(1917-2009), well-known Russian painter and graphic artist, a member of the Saint Petersburg Union of Artists (before 1992 the Leningrad branch of Union of Artists of Russian Federation), who lived and worked in Saint Petersburg (former Leningrad), regarded as one of the representatives of the Leningrad School of Painting most famous for her landscape and still life painting.. 
A Polish Nobleman. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . A Polish Nobleman is a 1637 painting by Rembrandt depicting a man in a costume of either Polish szlachta or Eastern-European boyar nobility. The identity of the subject of the painting is unclear, and has given rise to several different interpretations; though most often presumed to be one Robert Fitz the 1st. The painting has changed owners several times, and its past owners have included Catherine II the Great and Andrew Mellon. It is currently located at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C.. A Polish Nobleman is a 1637 painting by Rembrandt depicting a man in a costume of either Polish szlachta or Eastern-European boyar nobility. The identity of the subject of the painting is unclear, and has given rise to several different interpretations; though most often presumed to be one Robert Fitz the 1st. The painting has changed owners several times, and its past owners have included Catherine II the Great and Andrew Mellon. It is currently located at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C.. 
Mystical marriage of Saint Catherine. Author Name: Besozzo, Michelino Molinari Da. . . The Mystical Marriage of Saint Catherine is a painting by the medieval Italian painter Michelino da Besozzo. The painting dates from c. 1420 and is housed in the Pinacoteca Nazionale of Siena, Italy.It is the only signed work by the Gothic painter. The only other painting attributed to him with some certainty is Marriage of the Virgin in the Metropolitan Museum of New York.. The Mystical Marriage of Saint Catherine is a painting by the medieval Italian painter Michelino da Besozzo. The painting dates from c. 1420 and is housed in the Pinacoteca Nazionale of Siena, Italy. It is the only signed work by the Gothic painter. The only other painting attributed to him with some certainty is Marriage of the Virgin in the Metropolitan Museum of New York.. 
The Procession to Calvary. Author Name: Pieter Bruegel the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_and_Flemish_Renaissance_painting. . The Procession to Calvary is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder of Christ carrying the Cross set in a large landscape, painted in 1564. It is in the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna.. The Procession to Calvary is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder of Christ carrying the Cross set in a large landscape, painted in 1564. It is in the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna.. 
Christ Crowned with Thorns. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . Christ Crowned with Thorns is a painting by Hieronymus Bosch. It currently resides at the Monasterio de San Lorenzo in El Escorial.This painting is an incarnation of the original version, Christ Crowned with Thorns.. Christ Crowned with Thorns is a painting by Hieronymus Bosch. It currently resides at the Monasterio de San Lorenzo in El Escorial. This painting is an incarnation of the original version, Christ Crowned with Thorns.. 
Self-portrait wearing a white feathered bonnet. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Self-portrait wearing a white feathered bonnet is an oil painting attributed to the Dutch painter Rembrandt. It is signed and dated 1635. It was traditionally regarded as a Rembrandt self-portrait until 1968, when it was rejected on stylistic grounds in the Rembrandt catalogue raisonné by Horst Gerson. On 18 March 2013 it was re-attributed to the master by Ernst van de Wetering.. Self-portrait wearing a white feathered bonnet is an oil painting attributed to the Dutch painter Rembrandt. It is signed and dated 1635. It was traditionally regarded as a Rembrandt self-portrait until 1968, when it was rejected on stylistic grounds in the Rembrandt catalogue raisonné by Horst Gerson. On 18 March 2013 it was re-attributed to the master by Ernst van de Wetering.. 
Allegory of Isabella d'Este's Coronation. Author Name: Lorenzo Costa. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Allegory of Isabella d'Este's Coronation is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Lorenzo Costa the Elder, dating to about 1505-1506. It is displayed in the Louvre Museum of Paris, France.. The Allegory of Isabella d'Este's Coronation is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Lorenzo Costa the Elder, dating to about 1505-1506. It is displayed in the Louvre Museum of Paris, France.. 
Sterne's Captive. Author Name: Joseph Wright. . . The Captive, from Sterne is a painting by Joseph Wright of Derby completed in 1774 and now in the Vancouver Art Gallery. Sterne's Captive, first exhibited by the artist in 1778, is a similar painting by Wright in the Derby Museum and Art Gallery. The latter painting resulted in a very rare engraving, as its purchaser commissioned a print run of only twenty copies before the copper printing plate was destroyed. In 2012, Derby Museum commissioned another Captive painting from Emma Tooth.. The Captive, from Sterne is a painting by Joseph Wright of Derby completed in 1774 and now in the Vancouver Art Gallery. Sterne's Captive, first exhibited by the artist in 1778, is a similar painting by Wright in the Derby Museum and Art Gallery. The latter painting resulted in a very rare engraving, as its purchaser commissioned a print run of only twenty copies before the copper printing plate was destroyed. In 2012, Derby Museum commissioned another Captive painting from Emma Tooth.. 
Mans volant cap a les constel·lacions. Author Name: Joan Miró. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . Hands flying off toward the constellations is a painting by Joan Miró dated 19 January 1974. It is now shown at the Fundació Joan Miró, in Barcelona. The artist gave the work to the Foundation in the same month that it opened to the public on 10 June 1975.. Hands flying off toward the constellations is a painting by Joan Miró dated 19 January 1974. It is now shown at the Fundació Joan Miró, in Barcelona. The artist gave the work to the Foundation in the same month that it opened to the public on 10 June 1975.. 
Madonna of Humility. Author Name: Blessed John of Fiesole, O.P.. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Madonna of Humility is a painting by Fra Angelico which belongs to the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum in Madrid and is conserved on loan at the National Art Museum of Catalonia.. The Madonna of Humility is a painting by Fra Angelico which belongs to the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum in Madrid and is conserved on loan at the National Art Museum of Catalonia.. 
Halifax Explosion Memorial Sculpture. Author Name: Bonet, Jordi. . . The Halifax Explosion Memorial Sculpture was a work of public art in Halifax, Nova Scotia created in 1966 by the Quebec artist Jordi Bonet to commemorate the Halifax Explosion. The sculpture was located at the Halifax North Memorial Library but was dismantled in 2004 by the Halifax Regional Municipality.. The Halifax Explosion Memorial Sculpture was a work of public art in Halifax, Nova Scotia created in 1966 by the Quebec artist Jordi Bonet to commemorate the Halifax Explosion. The sculpture was located at the Halifax North Memorial Library but was dismantled in 2004 by the Halifax Regional Municipality.. 
Prussian Homage. Author Name: Jan Matejko. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/History_painting. . The Prussian Homage (Polish: Hołd pruski) is an oil on canvas painting by Polish painter Jan Matejko painted between 1879 and 1882 in Kraków (then part of Austria-Hungary). The painting depicts the "Prussian Homage," a significant political event from the time of the Renaissance in Poland in which Albrecht Hohenzollern, the Duke of Prussia paid tribute and swore allegiance to King Sigismund I the Old in Kraków's market square on 10 April 1525. Matejko depicted over thirty important figures of the Polish Renaissance period, taking the liberty of including several who were not actually present at the event.. The Prussian Homage (Polish: Hołd pruski) is an oil on canvas painting by Polish painter Jan Matejko painted between 1879 and 1882 in Kraków (then part of Austria-Hungary). The painting depicts the "Prussian Homage," a significant political event from the time of the Renaissance in Poland in which Albrecht Hohenzollern, the Duke of Prussia paid tribute and swore allegiance to King Sigismund I the Old in Kraków's market square on 10 April 1525. Matejko depicted over thirty important figures of the Polish Renaissance period, taking the liberty of including several who were not actually present at the event. The painting glorifies this event in Poland's past and its culture, and the majesty of its kings. At the same time, the painting has darker undertones, reflecting the troubled times that befell Poland in the late eighteenth century, for the Kingdom of Prussia would become one of the partitioning powers that ended the independence of Poland. The painting was seen by some as anti-Prussian, foretelling its perceived betrayal of Poland; others have noted it is also critical of Poland, as Matejko included signs that signify this seemingly triumphant moment was a hollow, wasted victory. Matejko created his painting to remind others about the history of the no-longer-independent country he loved, and about the changing fates of history. The painting is counted among his masterpieces.. 
John von Neumann. Author Name: Wayne Chabre. . . John von Neumann, also known as John von Neumann Gargoyle and Portrait Head of von Neumann, is an outdoor 1987 copper sculpture by Wayne Chabre, attached to the exterior of Willamette Hall on the University of Oregon campus in Eugene, Oregon, United States.. John von Neumann, also known as John von Neumann Gargoyle and Portrait Head of von Neumann, is an outdoor 1987 copper sculpture by Wayne Chabre, attached to the exterior of Willamette Hall on the University of Oregon campus in Eugene, Oregon, United States. The sculpture depicts the Hungarian-born American mathematician John von Neumann. The relief head is made of hammered copper sheet and measures approximately 3 feet (0.91 m) x 1.5 feet (0.46 m) x 1.5 feet (0.46 m). It cost around $2,500. The sculpture's condition was deemed "treatment needed" by Smithsonian Institution's "Save Outdoor Sculpture!" program in 1993. It is administered by the University of Oregon. The piece is one of a series by Chabre at the Eugene campus that includes scientists and mathematicians Albert Einstein (Einstein Gargoyle, 1986), Sir Isaac Newton, Marie Curie (Marie Curie Gargoyle, 1989), James Clerk Maxwell (Maxwell & Demon Gargoyle, 1989), Alan Turing (Alan Turing, 1988), John von Neumann, and Thomas Condon; a fruit fly (Drosophila Fly Head, 1988); and a school of zebrafish.. 
George Washington. Author Name: Lorado Taft. . . George Washington, also known as the President George Washington Monument, is a bronze sculpture of George Washington by Lorado Taft, installed at the University of Washington campus in Seattle's University District, in the U.S. state of Washington. The statue was dedicated on Flag Day, June 14, 1909, during the Alaska–Yukon–Pacific Exposition.. George Washington, also known as the President George Washington Monument, is a bronze sculpture of George Washington by Lorado Taft, installed at the University of Washington campus in Seattle's University District, in the U.S. state of Washington. The statue was dedicated on Flag Day, June 14, 1909, during the Alaska–Yukon–Pacific Exposition.. 
The Disquieting Muses. Author Name: Giorgio de Chirico. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Metaphysical_art. . The Disquieting Muses (in Italian: Le Muse inquietanti, 1916, 1917 or 1918) is a painting by the Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio de Chirico.The Disquieting Muses was painted during World War I, when De Chirico was in Ferrara. The Castello Estense, near which de Chirico lived, is in the background, rust-red and among industrial buildings. At the front are the two Muses, dressed in classical clothing. One is standing and the other sitting, and they are placed among various objects, including a red mask and staff, an allusion to Melpomene and Thalia, the Muses of tragedy and comedy. The statue on a pedestal in the background is Apollo, leader of the Muses.. The Disquieting Muses (in Italian: Le Muse inquietanti, 1916, 1917 or 1918) is a painting by the Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio de Chirico. The Disquieting Muses was painted during World War I, when De Chirico was in Ferrara. The Castello Estense, near which de Chirico lived, is in the background, rust-red and among industrial buildings. At the front are the two Muses, dressed in classical clothing. One is standing and the other sitting, and they are placed among various objects, including a red mask and staff, an allusion to Melpomene and Thalia, the Muses of tragedy and comedy. The statue on a pedestal in the background is Apollo, leader of the Muses. Giorgio Castelfranco, an art collector and critic, described the painting in 1948: The artist Carlo Belli discussed the merits of the painting in a letter to the collector Feroldi in 1939: This painting would later become an inspiration for Sylvia Plath's poem "The Disquieting Muses". and for the second poem in Mark Strand's "Two de Chiricos" from his Pulitzer Prize collection, Blizzard of One. A copy of this painting, at the moment, is located at the Italian Trade Commission (ITC) office, 33 East 67th Street, New York City.. 
Portrait of Elisabetta Gonzaga. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Elisabetta Gonzaga is a painting from around 1504, attributed to the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael and housed in the Uffizi Gallery, Florence.. The Portrait of Elisabetta Gonzaga is a painting from around 1504, attributed to the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael and housed in the Uffizi Gallery, Florence.. 
Windmill of Wijk bij Duurstede. Author Name: Jacob van Ruisdael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_Golden_Age_painting. . The Windmill of Wijk bij Duurstede (c. 1670) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch painter Jacob van Ruisdael. It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Amsterdam Museum, on loan to the Rijksmuseum.It is not known for certain when Ruisdael painted the Windmill. The painting is not dated, as very few of his works are after 1653. Dating subsequent work has therefore been largely detective work and speculation. It is assumed that it was painted in 1670.. The Windmill of Wijk bij Duurstede (c. 1670) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch painter Jacob van Ruisdael. It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Amsterdam Museum, on loan to the Rijksmuseum. The painting shows Wijk bij Duurstede, a riverside town about 20 kilometers from Utrecht, with a dominating cylindrical windmill, harmonised by the lines of river bank and sails, and the contrasts between light and shadow working together with the intensified concentration of mass and space. The attention to detail is remarkable. Art historian Seymour Slive reports that both from an aeronautical engineering and a hydrological viewpoint the finest levels of details are correct, in the windmill's sails and the river's waves respectively. It is not known for certain when Ruisdael painted the Windmill. The painting is not dated, as very few of his works are after 1653. Dating subsequent work has therefore been largely detective work and speculation. It is assumed that it was painted in 1670. Unlike many other Ruisdaels the Windmill seems to have remained in Dutch hands. It was acquired by Adriaan van der Hoop (1778-1854) of Amsterdam at an unknown date, and bequeathed by him to the city of Amsterdam in 1854. Since 30 June 1885 it has been lent to the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam, by the city of Amsterdam. Its enduring popularity is evidenced by card sales in the Rijksmuseum, with the Windmill ranking third after Rembrandt's Night Watch and Vermeer's View of Delft. Ruisdael's windmill no longer stands, although its foundations can still be seen. Another windmill located a few hundred meters further is often confused with Ruisdael's. This confusion was created when Hofstede de Groot in 1911 wrote about the painting:. 
The Daughters of Edward Darley Boit. Author Name: John Singer Sargent. . . The Daughters of Edward Darley Boit (originally titled Portraits d'enfants) is a painting by John Singer Sargent. The painting depicts four young girls, the daughters of Edward Darley Boit, in their family's Paris apartment. It was painted in 1882 and is now exhibited in the new Art of the Americas Wing of the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston. The painting hangs in between the two tall blue-and-white Japanese vases depicted in the work; they were donated by the heirs of the Boit family.. The Daughters of Edward Darley Boit (originally titled Portraits d'enfants) is a painting by John Singer Sargent. The painting depicts four young girls, the daughters of Edward Darley Boit, in their family's Paris apartment. It was painted in 1882 and is now exhibited in the new Art of the Americas Wing of the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston. The painting hangs in between the two tall blue-and-white Japanese vases depicted in the work; they were donated by the heirs of the Boit family. It has been described as "Arguably the most psychologically compelling painting of Sargent's career". Though the painting's unusual composition was noted from its earliest viewings, initially its subject was interpreted simply as that of girls at play, but it has subsequently been viewed in more abstract terms, reflecting Freudian analysis and a greater interest in the ambiguities of adolescence. Edward Boit was the son-in-law of John Perkins Cushing and a friend of Sargent's. Boit was an "American cosmopolite" and a minor painter. His wife and the mother of his five children was Mary Louisa Cushing, known as "Isa". Their four daughters were Florence, Jane, Mary Louisa and Julia.. 
Life Underground. Author Name: Tom Otterness. . . Life Underground (2001) is a permanent public artwork created by American sculptor Tom Otterness for the 14th Street – Eighth Avenue station (A C E L trains) of the New York City Subway. It was commissioned by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's Arts for Transit program for US$200,000 — one percent of the station's reconstruction budget. This program has commissioned more than 170 permanent works of art for public transportation facilities the MTA owns and operates. This work is one of the most popular artworks in the subway system.. Life Underground (2001) is a permanent public artwork created by American sculptor Tom Otterness for the 14th Street – Eighth Avenue station (A C E L trains) of the New York City Subway. It was commissioned by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's Arts for Transit program for US$200,000 — one percent of the station's reconstruction budget. This program has commissioned more than 170 permanent works of art for public transportation facilities the MTA owns and operates. This work is one of the most popular artworks in the subway system. The installation is a series of whimsical miniature bronze sculptures depicting cartoon like characters showing people and animals in various situations, and additional abstract sculptures, which are dispersed throughout the station platforms and passageways. Otterness said the subject of the work is "the impossibility of understanding life in New York" and describes the arrangement of the individual pieces as being “scattered in little surprises.” Art critic Olympia Lambert wrote that "the lovable bronze characters installed there are joined together by a common theme of implied criminality mixed with an undercurrent of social anarchy," but labeled them as "too cute", saying that this "undercuts the work's more critical edge." Many of the figures have moneybag heads, and Otterness credits 19th century political cartoonist Thomas Nast's depiction of Boss Tweed and the corruption of Tammany Hall that was ongoing at the time of the subway's initial construction as his inspiration for these. One of the larger pieces depicts a sewer alligator, as described by reporter Michael Rundle: "There is a bronze alligator on the Eighth Avenue and 14th Street subway platform, wearing a suit and tie. A 10-inch (250 mm)-high bronze man — also wearing a suit and tie — is struggling to escape his powerful jaws. Watching the scene, aside from throngs of L train riders, is another 10-inch (250 mm) figure. He stands beside his stricken friend, hands clasped behind his back, as if to say: 'I told you not to get so close'.” Otterness' sculpture has been praised for its appeal to all ages. The New York Times published a 2003 account describing the interaction of a 4-year old boy with the sewer alligator. After jumping on the alligator's head and trying to wrestle the little man from his bronze jaws, the observer notes that the boy, "about to give up, he kicked the alligator, his foot connecting solidly with the bronze head. Surprise spread across his face as he ran away, crying, 'Mom, it tried to bite me!'." Otterness became so obsessed with this project, that he delivered more than four times the amount of artwork he was originally commissioned to produce. His wife finally made him end expansion of the collection by imploring him to stop "giving away our daughter's whole inheritance". The complete series encompasses more than 100 individual pieces. Some of the individual pieces were put on public display in 1996 on the southeast corner of Central Park at Fifth Avenue, and then in Battery Park City in downtown Manhattan in 1997, to get public reaction prior to its installation originally scheduled for 1998. Approximately 25 of the pieces were finally installed at the end of 2000. with the balance installed in the following years. The entire project took 10 years from commissioning to the final completion of the installation.. 
Mother and Children. Author Name: Pierre-Auguste Renoir. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Mother and Children (also known as La Promenade) is an Impressionist painting by Pierre-Auguste Renoir that is housed in the Frick Collection. Although the painting is most commonly known as Mother and Children, Renoir presented it with the title La Promenade in 1876. The painting is displayed in an alcove under a set of stairs at the Frick. Jill Bialosky wrote in her memoir History of a Suicide: My Sister's Unfinished Life that, when she and her mother visited the Frick, Mother and Children reminded her of what life was like with her mother and sister Kim before Kim died.. Mother and Children (also known as La Promenade) is an Impressionist painting by Pierre-Auguste Renoir that is housed in the Frick Collection. Although the painting is most commonly known as Mother and Children, Renoir presented it with the title La Promenade in 1876. The painting is displayed in an alcove under a set of stairs at the Frick. Jill Bialosky wrote in her memoir History of a Suicide: My Sister's Unfinished Life that, when she and her mother visited the Frick, Mother and Children reminded her of what life was like with her mother and sister Kim before Kim died.. 
Midvinterblot. Author Name: Carl Larsson. . . Midvinterblot (Swedish for Midwinter's sacrifice) is a painting created for the hall of the central staircase in Nationalmuseum in Stockholm by the Swedish painter Carl Larsson in 1915. It is Sweden's most debated painting.The painting depicts a legend from Norse mythology in which the Swedish king Domalde was sacrificed in order to avert a famine. After a long controversy it was rejected by the museum, but the debate resurfaced again in the late 20th century, after which it was finally honoured with the place where Carl Larsson intended it to be.. Midvinterblot (Swedish for Midwinter's sacrifice) is a painting created for the hall of the central staircase in Nationalmuseum in Stockholm by the Swedish painter Carl Larsson in 1915. It is Sweden's most debated painting. The painting depicts a legend from Norse mythology in which the Swedish king Domalde was sacrificed in order to avert a famine. After a long controversy it was rejected by the museum, but the debate resurfaced again in the late 20th century, after which it was finally honoured with the place where Carl Larsson intended it to be.. 
The crowning of the virgin. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Oddi Altarpiece is an altarpiece of the Coronation of the Virgin painted in 1502-1504 by the Italian Renaissance master Raphael for the altar of the Oddi family chapel in the church of San Francesco al Prato in Perugia, Italy, now in the Vatican Pinacoteca.. The Oddi Altarpiece is an altarpiece of the Coronation of the Virgin painted in 1502-1504 by the Italian Renaissance master Raphael for the altar of the Oddi family chapel in the church of San Francesco al Prato in Perugia, Italy, now in the Vatican Pinacoteca.. 
Christ at the Column. Author Name: Antonello da Messina. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Christ at the Column is a small painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Antonello da Messina, finished around 1475, showing the Flagellation of Christ. It is in the Louvre in Paris.Painted in his final years, the pictures shows Antonello's assimilation of the Early Netherlandish and Venetian influences into a mature art. For long time the unusual small size and close-up view of the subject led scholars to think that the work had been cut down and originally extended lower, and that originally a parapet separated Christ from the watchers. This theory has been proved to be wrong.. Christ at the Column is a small painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Antonello da Messina, finished around 1475, showing the Flagellation of Christ. It is in the Louvre in Paris. Painted in his final years, the pictures shows Antonello's assimilation of the Early Netherlandish and Venetian influences into a mature art. For long time the unusual small size and close-up view of the subject led scholars to think that the work had been cut down and originally extended lower, and that originally a parapet separated Christ from the watchers. This theory has been proved to be wrong. The face of Christ was a common theme in Antonello's art: however, portraying Christ in the middle of his pain, in the moment in which the tortures have just begun, Antonello managed to obtain an emotive impact sometimes lacking in his similar works. As usual, Antonello devoted high attention to the rendering of details: the sweaty hair, the beard (each hair of which can be distinguished), the half open mouth, in which teeth and tongue can be seen, the first stripes of blood marking the face, the perfectly transparent drops.. 
The Descent from the Cross. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Descent from the Cross is the central panel of a triptych painting by Peter Paul Rubens in 1612–1614. The painting is the second of Rubens's great altarpieces for the Cathedral of Our Lady, Antwerp, Belgium, along with The Elevation of the Cross. The subject was one Rubens returned to again and again in his career. This particular work was commissioned on September 7, 1611, by the Confraternity of the Arquebusiers, whose Patron Saint was St. Christopher.. The Descent from the Cross is the central panel of a triptych painting by Peter Paul Rubens in 1612–1614. The painting is the second of Rubens's great altarpieces for the Cathedral of Our Lady, Antwerp, Belgium, along with The Elevation of the Cross. The subject was one Rubens returned to again and again in his career. This particular work was commissioned on September 7, 1611, by the Confraternity of the Arquebusiers, whose Patron Saint was St. Christopher.. 
Sudden Shower over Shin-Ōhashi bridge and Atake. Author Name: Hiroshige. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Utagawa_school. . Sudden Shower over Shin-Ōhashi bridge and Atake (大はしあたけの夕立 Ōhashi atake no yūdachi) is a woodblock print in the ukiyo-e genre by the Japanese artist Hiroshige. It was published in 1857 as part of the series One Hundred Famous Views of Edo and is one of the best known of Hiroshige's prints.. Sudden Shower over Shin-Ōhashi bridge and Atake (大はしあたけの夕立 Ōhashi atake no yūdachi) is a woodblock print in the ukiyo-e genre by the Japanese artist Hiroshige. It was published in 1857 as part of the series One Hundred Famous Views of Edo and is one of the best known of Hiroshige's prints.. 
Baigneuses. Author Name: Jean Metzinger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Baigneuses, also called Bathers, is a Proto-Cubist painting, now lost or missing, created circa 1908 by the French artist and theorist Jean Metzinger. Possibly exhibited during the spring of 1908 at the Salon des Indépendants (n. 4243). This black-and-white image of Metzinger's painting, the only known photograph of the work, was reproduced in Gelett Burgess, The Wild Men of Paris, Architectural Record, May 1910. The painting was also reproduced in The New York Times, 8 October 1911, in an article titled The "Cubists" Dominate Paris' Fall Salon, and subtitled, Eccentric School of Painting Increases Its Vogue in the Current Art Exhibition - What Its Followers Attempt to Do.. Baigneuses, also called Bathers, is a Proto-Cubist painting, now lost or missing, created circa 1908 by the French artist and theorist Jean Metzinger. Possibly exhibited during the spring of 1908 at the Salon des Indépendants (n. 4243). This black-and-white image of Metzinger's painting, the only known photograph of the work, was reproduced in Gelett Burgess, The Wild Men of Paris, Architectural Record, May 1910. The painting was also reproduced in The New York Times, 8 October 1911, in an article titled The "Cubists" Dominate Paris' Fall Salon, and subtitled, Eccentric School of Painting Increases Its Vogue in the Current Art Exhibition - What Its Followers Attempt to Do.. 
Rucellai Madonna. Author Name: Duccio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Gothic_art. . The Rucellai Madonna is a panel painting by the late medieval Italian painter Duccio di Buoninsegna from Siena. Originally painted for the Societa di S Maria Virginis for the church of Santa Maria Novella, the painting now resides in the Uffizi Gallery in Florence. The painting depicts the Virgin and Child enthroned, surrounded by angels on a gold background.. The Rucellai Madonna is a panel painting by the late medieval Italian painter Duccio di Buoninsegna from Siena. Originally painted for the Societa di S Maria Virginis for the church of Santa Maria Novella, the painting now resides in the Uffizi Gallery in Florence. The painting depicts the Virgin and Child enthroned, surrounded by angels on a gold background.. 
Saint Jerome in His Study. Author Name: Domenico Ghirlandaio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Saint Jerome in His Study is a fresco by the Italian Renaissance painter Domenico Ghirlandaio, executed in 1480 and located in the church of Ognissanti, Florence.The work was commissioned by the Vespucci family together with a Saint Augustine in His Study by Sandro Botticelli. Both depicted two Doctors of the Church in their studies, with a number of objects which should mark their role as precursors of humanism. They decorated the area next to the choir, which was demolished in the 18th century. In that occasion the two frescoes were removed and placed in the nave. Part of the annexed frame and the inscriptions were lost.. Saint Jerome in His Study is a fresco by the Italian Renaissance painter Domenico Ghirlandaio, executed in 1480 and located in the church of Ognissanti, Florence. The work was commissioned by the Vespucci family together with a Saint Augustine in His Study by Sandro Botticelli. Both depicted two Doctors of the Church in their studies, with a number of objects which should mark their role as precursors of humanism. They decorated the area next to the choir, which was demolished in the 18th century. In that occasion the two frescoes were removed and placed in the nave. Part of the annexed frame and the inscriptions were lost.. 
Phase-Mother Earth. Author Name: Nobuo Sekine. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mono-ha. . Mono-ha (もの派) is the name given to group of 20th-century Japanese artists. The Mono-ha artists explored the encounter between natural and industrial materials, such as stone, steel plates, glass, light bulbs, cotton, sponge, paper, wood, wire, rope, leather, oil, and water, arranging them in mostly unaltered, ephemeral states. The works focus as much on the interdependency of these various elements and the surrounding space as on the materials themselves.. Mono-ha (もの派) is the name given to group of 20th-century Japanese artists. The Mono-ha artists explored the encounter between natural and industrial materials, such as stone, steel plates, glass, light bulbs, cotton, sponge, paper, wood, wire, rope, leather, oil, and water, arranging them in mostly unaltered, ephemeral states. The works focus as much on the interdependency of these various elements and the surrounding space as on the materials themselves.. 
Sky Landscape I. Author Name: Louise Nevelson. . . Sky Landscape is a sculpture by Louise Nevelson.It was commissioned by the American Medical Association, dedicated on March 10, 1988, and is located at 1101 Vermont Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C.. Sky Landscape is a sculpture by Louise Nevelson. It was commissioned by the American Medical Association, dedicated on March 10, 1988, and is located at 1101 Vermont Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C.. 
Saint John the Baptist. Author Name: Titian. . . Saint John the Baptist is a 1540 painting of John the Baptist by Titian, with his traditional attributes of the Lamb of God and a staff. In the background is a Giorgionesque landscape with the river Jordan, in which Christ was baptised.. Saint John the Baptist is a 1540 painting of John the Baptist by Titian, with his traditional attributes of the Lamb of God and a staff. In the background is a Giorgionesque landscape with the river Jordan, in which Christ was baptised.. 
St. Sebastian. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . St. Sebastian is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael, c. 1501-1502. Part of his early works, it is housed in the Accademia Carrara of Bergamo, Italy.. St. Sebastian is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael, c. 1501-1502. Part of his early works, it is housed in the Accademia Carrara of Bergamo, Italy.. 
At a Window in the Artist's Studio. Author Name: Christoffer Wilhelm Eckersberg. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Danish_Golden_Age. . At a Window in the Artist's Studio is a drawing by the Danish painter, C. W. Eckersberg. It was done in 1852.The drawing shows two girls by a window; these girls are probably the daughters of the artist. They are shown by a window facing Kongens Nytorv in Copenhagen but they are not watching anything on the square; they are reading a book.. At a Window in the Artist's Studio is a drawing by the Danish painter, C. W. Eckersberg. It was done in 1852. The drawing shows two girls by a window; these girls are probably the daughters of the artist. They are shown by a window facing Kongens Nytorv in Copenhagen but they are not watching anything on the square; they are reading a book.. 
Tikitotmoniki Totems. Author Name: Kenny Scharf. . . Tikitotmoniki Totems (alternate spelling: Tikitotemoniki Totems; sometimes abbreviated as Tikitotmoniki or Tiki Totems) is a series of four outdoor 2001 sculptures by American artist Kenny Scharf, located at Jamison Square in Portland, Oregon.. Tikitotmoniki Totems (alternate spelling: Tikitotemoniki Totems; sometimes abbreviated as Tikitotmoniki or Tiki Totems) is a series of four outdoor 2001 sculptures by American artist Kenny Scharf, located at Jamison Square in Portland, Oregon.. 
Portrait of a Man. Author Name: Antonello da Messina. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Portrait of a Man is a painting by Italian Renaissance artist Antonello da Messina.This portrait, finished c. 1475, is housed in the Museo Thyssen-Bornemisza, in Madrid, Spain.Among Antonello's portraits, it is among the most expressively animated ones. The subject, a young man, is drawn from a quite near point of view, with the usual skill in details rendering.The picture has been approximately dated to the early 1470s, basing on the typical "zuccotto" headgear, a fashion more characteristic of 1460s Italy.. Portrait of a Man is a painting by Italian Renaissance artist Antonello da Messina.This portrait, finished c. 1475, is housed in the Museo Thyssen-Bornemisza, in Madrid, Spain. Among Antonello's portraits, it is among the most expressively animated ones. The subject, a young man, is drawn from a quite near point of view, with the usual skill in details rendering. The picture has been approximately dated to the early 1470s, basing on the typical "zuccotto" headgear, a fashion more characteristic of 1460s Italy.. 
The Allegory of Faith. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . The Allegory of Faith, also known as Allegory of the Catholic Faith, is a painting created by Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer in about 1670–72. The painting is currently located at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, and has been since 1931.. The Allegory of Faith, also known as Allegory of the Catholic Faith, is a painting created by Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer in about 1670–72. The painting is currently located at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, and has been since 1931. This and Art of Painting are his only works that fall under history painting in the contemporary hierarchy of genres, though they still have his typical composition of one or two figures in a domestic interior. (The Art of Painting is Vermeer's only other allegory, painted earlier than Allegory of Faith.) Both share several features: the perspective is almost the same, and at the left of each painting is a multicolor tapestry pulled to the left to disclose the scene. The Art of Painting also uses symbolism from Cesare Ripa (of Clio, muse of history). Vermeer's Love Letter uses the same or a similar gilt panel. The Allegory and The Art of Painting differ markedly in style and purpose from Vermeer's other works. Both allegorical paintings show complex meaning, but Allegory of Faith "reveals that the artist's usual focus on naturalistic effects was a stylistic option, to be set aside when the subject called for another approach". The Art of Painting still reads as a naturalistic depiction of an artist and his model, and the pose of the model is simple, whereas the pose of the figure in the The Allegory of Faith is Baroquely dramatic.. 
The Zoka-ol-Molk I. Author Name: Kamal-ol-Molk. . . The Zoka-ol-Molk I is a painting by the Iranian realism painter Kamal-ol-molk with oil on cotton duck. It was pained in 1913 and features portrait of Mohammad Hossein Foroughi titled Zoka-ol-Molk I father of Mohammad Ali Foroughi titled Zoka-ol-Molk II.. The Zoka-ol-Molk I is a painting by the Iranian realism painter Kamal-ol-molk with oil on cotton duck. It was pained in 1913 and features portrait of Mohammad Hossein Foroughi titled Zoka-ol-Molk I father of Mohammad Ali Foroughi titled Zoka-ol-Molk II.. 
Steuben Monument. Author Name: Schweizer, J. Otto. . . The Steuben Monument is a public art work by Swiss-American artist J. Otto Schweizer, located on the west side of Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The bronze equestrian sculpture depicts Baron Friedrich Wilhelm von Steuben in his Revolutionary War uniform. It is located at the intersection of West Lisbon Avenue, Lloyd Street, and North Sherman Boulevard.. The Steuben Monument is a public art work by Swiss-American artist J. Otto Schweizer, located on the west side of Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The bronze equestrian sculpture depicts Baron Friedrich Wilhelm von Steuben in his Revolutionary War uniform. It is located at the intersection of West Lisbon Avenue, Lloyd Street, and North Sherman Boulevard.. 
The Battle of Lepanto. Author Name: Juan Luna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Battle of Lepanto (Spanish: La Batalla de Lepanto) is a famous painting by Filipino painter and hero Juan Luna. Luna is one of the first Filipinos to excel and earn recognition in the international field of arts and culture (the other was Félix Resurrección Hidalgo). Painted by Luna in 1887, the masterpiece is about the Battle of Lepanto of October 7, 1571. The painting features Don Juan of Austria (also known as Don John of Austria) in battle while at the bow of a ship. It is one of the “huge epic canvasses” painted by Luna (the others are the Spoliarium and The Blood Compact). The painting is also known as The Battle of Lepanto of 1571.. The Battle of Lepanto (Spanish: La Batalla de Lepanto) is a famous painting by Filipino painter and hero Juan Luna. Luna is one of the first Filipinos to excel and earn recognition in the international field of arts and culture (the other was Félix Resurrección Hidalgo). Painted by Luna in 1887, the masterpiece is about the Battle of Lepanto of October 7, 1571. The painting features Don Juan of Austria (also known as Don John of Austria) in battle while at the bow of a ship. It is one of the “huge epic canvasses” painted by Luna (the others are the Spoliarium and The Blood Compact). The painting is also known as The Battle of Lepanto of 1571.. 
The Stoning of Saint Stephen. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Stoning of Saint Stephen is the first signed painting by Dutch artist Rembrandt, painted in 1625 at the age of 19. It is currently kept in the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Lyon.This work is inspired by the martyrdom of Saint Stephen which is recounted in Acts 7. This young deacon in the Christian community of Jerusalem was sentenced to death by stoning. The painting was influenced by the art of Caravaggio and Adam Elsheimer. It represents the moment when Stephen was stoned outside the city by his many tormentors (about twenty characters), and he utters his last words to Christ as the light around him shows that the heavens are open.. The Stoning of Saint Stephen is the first signed painting by Dutch artist Rembrandt, painted in 1625 at the age of 19. It is currently kept in the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Lyon. This work is inspired by the martyrdom of Saint Stephen which is recounted in Acts 7. This young deacon in the Christian community of Jerusalem was sentenced to death by stoning. The painting was influenced by the art of Caravaggio and Adam Elsheimer. It represents the moment when Stephen was stoned outside the city by his many tormentors (about twenty characters), and he utters his last words to Christ as the light around him shows that the heavens are open. The painting is divided into two distinct zones with a diagonal creating an effect of chiaroscuro: on the left, a man on horseback is in the shadow, and on the right, Stephen and his persecutors are in the light. Saul of Tarsus can be seen seated in the background holding in his lap the coats of the stoners. Some inaccuracies in the drawing can be seen. The character behind Stephen seems to be a self-portrait done into a wider composition, as Spanish painter Diego Velázquez did in Las Meninas. John Durham suggests that Rembrandt "presents himself as a somewhat alarmed presence, a participant who may be having second thoughts about what was taking place.". 
Two Angels in Sant'Agostino. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Two Angels in Sant'Agostino are two marble sculptures above the high altar of the Basilica of Sant'Agostino in Rome. They are listed as being by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini in the biography of Baldinucci, and there is also recorded evidence of Bernini having been paid for them. However, it seems likely that Bernini passed the work over to one of his assistants, Giuliano Finelli.. Two Angels in Sant'Agostino are two marble sculptures above the high altar of the Basilica of Sant'Agostino in Rome. They are listed as being by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini in the biography of Baldinucci, and there is also recorded evidence of Bernini having been paid for them. However, it seems likely that Bernini passed the work over to one of his assistants, Giuliano Finelli. One of the bozzetti (preparatory works in terracotta) is in the Ringling Museum, Sarasota, in the USA. It was verified as a Bernini by art historian Rudolf Wittkower and purchased for US$5,880 by the museum in 1961; a fact corroborated in newspaper reports of the time. However, the current Ringling museum website states the work to be the design of Bernini and executed by Giuliano Finelli.. 
Epiphany. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . The Adoration of the Magi, or The Epiphany is a triptych oil painting on wood panel by the Netherlandish artist Hieronymus Bosch, executed around 1485-1500. It is housed in the Museo del Prado of Madrid, Spain.. The Adoration of the Magi, or The Epiphany is a triptych oil painting on wood panel by the Netherlandish artist Hieronymus Bosch, executed around 1485-1500. It is housed in the Museo del Prado of Madrid, Spain.. 
Black in Deep Red. Author Name: Mark Rothko. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . Black in Deep Red is a painting by Mark Rothko from 1957. It is now in private collection after it was sold in 2000 for $3,306,000.. Black in Deep Red is a painting by Mark Rothko from 1957. It is now in private collection after it was sold in 2000 for $3,306,000.. 
The Stonemason's Yard. Author Name: Canaletto. . . The Stonemason's Yard (formally known as Campo S. Vidal and Santa Maria della Carità) is an early oil painting by Giovanni Antonio Canal, better known as Canaletto. Painted in the mid to late 1720s, it is considered one of Canaletto's finest works.. The Stonemason's Yard (formally known as Campo S. Vidal and Santa Maria della Carità) is an early oil painting by Giovanni Antonio Canal, better known as Canaletto. Painted in the mid to late 1720s, it is considered one of Canaletto's finest works.. 
The Raft of the Medusa. Author Name: Théodore Géricault. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . The Raft of the Medusa (French: Le Radeau de la Méduse) is an oil painting of 1818–1819 by the French Romantic painter and lithographer Théodore Géricault (1791–1824). Completed when the artist was 27, the work has become an icon of French Romanticism. At 491 cm × 716 cm (16′ 1″ × 23′ 6″), it is an over-life-size painting that depicts a moment from the aftermath of the wreck of the French naval frigate Méduse, which ran aground off the coast of today's Mauritania on 2 July 1816. On 5 July 1816, at least 147 people were set adrift on a hurriedly constructed raft; all but 15 died in the 13 days before their rescue, and those who survived endured starvation and dehydration and practiced cannibalism. The event became an international scandal, in part because its cause was widely attributed to . The Raft of the Medusa (French: Le Radeau de la Méduse) is an oil painting of 1818–1819 by the French Romantic painter and lithographer Théodore Géricault (1791–1824). Completed when the artist was 27, the work has become an icon of French Romanticism. At 491 cm × 716 cm (16′ 1″ × 23′ 6″), it is an over-life-size painting that depicts a moment from the aftermath of the wreck of the French naval frigate Méduse, which ran aground off the coast of today's Mauritania on 2 July 1816. On 5 July 1816, at least 147 people were set adrift on a hurriedly constructed raft; all but 15 died in the 13 days before their rescue, and those who survived endured starvation and dehydration and practiced cannibalism. The event became an international scandal, in part because its cause was widely attributed to the incompetence of the French captain. Géricault chose to depict this event in order to launch his career with a large-scale uncommissioned work on a subject that had already generated great public interest. The event fascinated him, and before he began work on the final painting, he undertook extensive research and produced many preparatory sketches. He interviewed two of the survivors and constructed a detailed scale model of the raft. He visited hospitals and morgues where he could view, first-hand, the colour and texture of the flesh of the dying and dead. As he had anticipated, the painting proved highly controversial at its first appearance in the 1819 Paris Salon, attracting passionate praise and condemnation in equal measure. However, it established his international reputation, and today is widely seen as seminal in the early history of the Romantic movement in French painting. Although The Raft of the Medusa retains elements of the traditions of history painting, in both its choice of subject matter and its dramatic presentation, it represents a break from the calm and order of the prevailing Neoclassical school. Géricault's work attracted wide attention from its first showing and was then exhibited in London. The Louvre acquired it soon after the artist's death at the age of 32. The painting's influence can be seen in the works of Eugène Delacroix, J. M. W. Turner, Gustave Courbet, and Édouard Manet.. 
Cigarette. Author Name: Tony Smith. . . Cigarette is a public artwork by United States artist Tony Smith, located on the grounds of the Albright Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo, NY. Cigarette is a minimalist piece of environmental sculpture created by in 1961. The sculpture is over 15 feet tall and made of flat planes of steel in a twisted form. This is the first in an edition of three (with one artists proof); no. 2 is at MOMA in New York.A small scale version of the piece is on display at the St. Louis Art Museum.. Cigarette is a public artwork by United States artist Tony Smith, located on the grounds of the Albright Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo, NY. Cigarette is a minimalist piece of environmental sculpture created by in 1961. The sculpture is over 15 feet tall and made of flat planes of steel in a twisted form. This is the first in an edition of three (with one artists proof); no. 2 is at MOMA in New York. A small scale version of the piece is on display at the St. Louis Art Museum.. 
Big Electric Chair. Author Name: Andy Warhol. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Created in 1967, the Stockholm Big Electric Chair is part of a series of works by Andy Warhol depicting an electric chair. Death by electrocution was a controversial subject in New York, where the artist lived and worked, especially after the last two executions at Sing Sing Correctional Facility in 1963. Warhol obtained a photograph of the empty execution chamber, which became the basis for this series.. Created in 1967, the Stockholm Big Electric Chair is part of a series of works by Andy Warhol depicting an electric chair. Death by electrocution was a controversial subject in New York, where the artist lived and worked, especially after the last two executions at Sing Sing Correctional Facility in 1963. Warhol obtained a photograph of the empty execution chamber, which became the basis for this series.. 
One Hundred Years: History of the Chinese in America. Author Name: Leong, James. . . One Hundred Years: History of the Chinese in America is a 1952 mural painting by James Leong.. One Hundred Years: History of the Chinese in America is a 1952 mural painting by James Leong.. 
Without Without Title. Author Name: Peladic, Slobodon. . . The Without Without Title is a painting of Slobodan Peladić made in 1989.Ješa Denegri has been said about the work:The author of this work is Slobodan Peladić, known in Serbian art (as well as in that of the former Yugoslavia art) of the late 80s as one of the protagonists of the New Informel, of the painting of "controlled gesture", as it was called after one of the exhibitions at which it was presented at the time. Peladic's black, dense, silent, layered fields of chromatic matter, so, massive as to have relief, are still fresh in our memories; the surfaces of the usually large formats were placed in a series so as to completely take over the gallery space, even when not occupying it completely. Today, after everything that has happened, it is clear that the painting of the New Informel . The Without Without Title is a painting of Slobodan Peladić made in 1989. Ješa Denegri has been said about the work: The author of this work is Slobodan Peladić, known in Serbian art (as well as in that of the former Yugoslavia art) of the late 80s as one of the protagonists of the New Informel, of the painting of "controlled gesture", as it was called after one of the exhibitions at which it was presented at the time. Peladic's black, dense, silent, layered fields of chromatic matter, so, massive as to have relief, are still fresh in our memories; the surfaces of the usually large formats were placed in a series so as to completely take over the gallery space, even when not occupying it completely. Today, after everything that has happened, it is clear that the painting of the New Informel of the 80s, including Peladic's work of the time, was an indirect but indubitable premonition of the coming cataclysm, a sign of the tortuous existential state which nobody, not even art or artists in these spaces, could avoid in the early 90s. The creator of this project, therefore, is a former New Informel painter of the crisis – ridden 80s who in the no less crisis – ridden 90s, born by the ideal of constructing a new perfect form as symbolic counterweight to the general stasis, wishes to discern and announce the coming of a possible and necessary general restoration, still extremely utopian at the moment.. 
Parade de cirque. Author Name: Georges Seurat. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neo-impressionism. . Parade de cirque (English: Circus Sideshow) is a 1887-88 Neo-Impressionist painting by Georges Seurat. It was first exhibited at the 1888 Salon de la Société des Artistes Indépendants (titled Parade de cirque, cat. no. 614) in Paris, where it became one of Seurat's least admired works. Parade de cirque represents the sideshow (or parade) of the Circus Corvi at place de la Nation, and was his first depiction of a nocturnal scene, and first painting of popular entertainment. Seurat worked on the theme for nearly six years before completing the final painting.. Parade de cirque (English: Circus Sideshow) is a 1887-88 Neo-Impressionist painting by Georges Seurat. It was first exhibited at the 1888 Salon de la Société des Artistes Indépendants (titled Parade de cirque, cat. no. 614) in Paris, where it became one of Seurat's least admired works. Parade de cirque represents the sideshow (or parade) of the Circus Corvi at place de la Nation, and was his first depiction of a nocturnal scene, and first painting of popular entertainment. Seurat worked on the theme for nearly six years before completing the final painting. Art historian Alfred H. Barr Jr. described Parade de cirque as one of Seurat's most important paintings, its 'formality' and 'symmetry' as highly innovative, and placed it as "the most geometric in design as well as the most mysterious in sentiment" of Seurat's major canvases. Circus Sideshow influenced the Fauves, Cubists, Futurists and Orphists. It is located at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York (Bequest of Stephen C. Clark, 1960, accession number: 61.101.17, Gallery 826).. 
Orphan Girl at the Cemetery. Author Name: Eugène Delacroix. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . The Orphan Girl at the cemetery (also known as Young Orphan Girl in the Cemetery; French: Jeune orpheline au cimetière) (c. 1823 or 1824) is a painting by the French artist Eugène Delacroix.. The Orphan Girl at the cemetery (also known as Young Orphan Girl in the Cemetery; French: Jeune orpheline au cimetière) (c. 1823 or 1824) is a painting by the French artist Eugène Delacroix.. 
Nude, Green Leaves and Bust. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Nude, Green Leaves and Bust (French: Nu au Plateau de Sculpteur) is a 1932 painting by Pablo Picasso, featuring his mistress Marie-Thérèse Walter.The painting was in the personal collection of Los Angeles art collectors Sidney and Frances Brody for nearly six decades. It sold at auction for US$106.5 million, the third highest world record price for a piece of art work sold at auction.. Nude, Green Leaves and Bust (French: Nu au Plateau de Sculpteur) is a 1932 painting by Pablo Picasso, featuring his mistress Marie-Thérèse Walter. The painting was in the personal collection of Los Angeles art collectors Sidney and Frances Brody for nearly six decades. It sold at auction for US$106.5 million, the third highest world record price for a piece of art work sold at auction.. 
Whistlejacket. Author Name: George Stubbs. . . Whistlejacket is an oil-on-canvas painting from about 1762 by the British artist George Stubbs showing the Marquess of Rockingham's racehorse approximately at lifesize, rearing up against a plain background. The canvas is large, lacks any other content except some discreet shadows, and Stubbs has paid precise attention to the details of the horse's appearance. It has been described in The Independent as "a paradigm of the flawless beauty of an Arabian thoroughbred". The Fitzwilliam family, heirs of the childless Rockingham, retained the painting until 1997 when funding from the Heritage Lottery Fund allowed the National Gallery, London to acquire it for £11 million.. Whistlejacket is an oil-on-canvas painting from about 1762 by the British artist George Stubbs showing the Marquess of Rockingham's racehorse approximately at lifesize, rearing up against a plain background. The canvas is large, lacks any other content except some discreet shadows, and Stubbs has paid precise attention to the details of the horse's appearance. It has been described in The Independent as "a paradigm of the flawless beauty of an Arabian thoroughbred". The Fitzwilliam family, heirs of the childless Rockingham, retained the painting until 1997 when funding from the Heritage Lottery Fund allowed the National Gallery, London to acquire it for £11 million. Stubbs was a specialist equine artist who in 1762 was invited by Rockingham to spend "some months" at Wentworth Woodhouse in Yorkshire, his main country house. Stubbs had painted many horse portraits, with and without human figures, but the heroic scale and lack of background of Whistlejacket are "unprecedented" in his work and equine portraits in general and "contemporaries were so astonished that a single horse should command a huge canvas that legends quickly developed" explaining why the painting was unfinished, none of which seem plausible or supported by the evidence to modern art historians. In fact Stubbs' earliest canvases on his visit in 1762 included a pair of much smaller paintings of groups of standing horses, one including Whistlejacket, in a horizontal format "like a classical frieze" with a similar honey beige background broken only by small shadows at the feet. It would seem likely that leaving the portraits without the usual landscape background was Rockingham's idea. Stubbs depicts Whistlejacket rising to a levade, but with his head turned towards the viewer, in a pose comparable to a number of earlier monumental equestrian portraits, including examples by Rubens and Velázquez, but in these the emphasis is on the rider. Here the horse is alone and in a natural state, producing a "romantic study in solitude and liberty". Like many of Stubbs's other paintings of horses and other animals in the wild, including several versions of a horse attacked by a lion perched on its back, the painting is an early intimation of Romanticism, as well as a challenge to the lowly place animal painting occupied in the hierarchy of genres. To a greater degree than any earlier painter, Stubbs produced genuinely individual portraits of specific horses, paying intimate attention to details of their form. Minute blemishes, veins, and the muscles flexing just below the surface of the skin are all visible and reproduced with great care and realism. Whistlejacket had already retired after a fairly successful racing career, but was painted in this unusual form to show "a supremely beautiful specimen of the pure-bred Arabian horse at its finest".. 
Madonna with Writing Child. Author Name: Bernardino Pinturicchio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Madonna with Writing Child is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Pinturicchio, painted around 1494-1498 and housed in the Philadelphia Museum of Art, in the United States.The painting is derived from the Madonna of the Peace (c. 1490), a simplification for a less acculturated commissioner, perhaps a private family. The Virgin sits on a kind of cask, and is offering a book to the Child, who writes on it. The garments of the Child are perhaps inspired by the late Byzantine mosaics seen by Pinturicchio in Rome.. The Madonna with Writing Child is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Pinturicchio, painted around 1494-1498 and housed in the Philadelphia Museum of Art, in the United States. The painting is derived from the Madonna of the Peace (c. 1490), a simplification for a less acculturated commissioner, perhaps a private family. The Virgin sits on a kind of cask, and is offering a book to the Child, who writes on it. The garments of the Child are perhaps inspired by the late Byzantine mosaics seen by Pinturicchio in Rome. In the background is a small depiction of the Flight into Egypt and two symmetrical trees, one which is a palm, a symbol of martyrdom.. 
San Zaccaria Altarpiece. Author Name: Giovanni Bellini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The San Zaccaria Altarpiece (also called Madonna Enthroned with Child and Saints) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Giovanni Bellini, executed in 1505 and located in the church of San Zaccaria, Venice.. The San Zaccaria Altarpiece (also called Madonna Enthroned with Child and Saints) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Giovanni Bellini, executed in 1505 and located in the church of San Zaccaria, Venice.. 
L'Oiseau bleu. Author Name: Jean Metzinger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . L'Oiseau bleu (also known as The Blue Bird and Der Blaue Vogel) is a large oil painting created in 1912–1913 by the French artist and theorist Jean Metzinger (1883–1956); considered by Guillaume Apollinaire and André Salmon as a founder of Cubism, along with Georges Braque and Pablo Picasso. L'Oiseau bleu, one of Metzinger's most recognizable and frequently referenced works, was first exhibited in Paris at the Salon des Indépendants in the spring of 1913 (n. 2087), several months after the publication of the first (and only) Cubist manifesto, Du «Cubisme», written by Jean Metzinger and Albert Gleizes (1912). It was subsequently exhibited at the 1913 Erster Deutscher Herbstsalon in Berlin (titled Der blaue Vogel, n. 287). Apollinaire described L'Oiseau bleu as a 'very brilliant painting' an. L'Oiseau bleu (also known as The Blue Bird and Der Blaue Vogel) is a large oil painting created in 1912–1913 by the French artist and theorist Jean Metzinger (1883–1956); considered by Guillaume Apollinaire and André Salmon as a founder of Cubism, along with Georges Braque and Pablo Picasso. L'Oiseau bleu, one of Metzinger's most recognizable and frequently referenced works, was first exhibited in Paris at the Salon des Indépendants in the spring of 1913 (n. 2087), several months after the publication of the first (and only) Cubist manifesto, Du «Cubisme», written by Jean Metzinger and Albert Gleizes (1912). It was subsequently exhibited at the 1913 Erster Deutscher Herbstsalon in Berlin (titled Der blaue Vogel, n. 287). Apollinaire described L'Oiseau bleu as a 'very brilliant painting' and 'his most important work to date'. L'Oiseau bleu, acquired by the City of Paris in 1937, forms part of the permanent collection at the Musée d'Art Moderne de la Ville de Paris.. 
The Fall of the Damned. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Fall of the Damned, conversely known as The Fall of the Rebel Angels is a monumental religious painting by Peter Paul Rubens. It features a jumble of the bodies of the damned, hurled into abyss by archangel Michael and accompanying angels. David Freedberg assessed this painting manner as the "most brilliant assemblages of lusciously naked flesh in Western art".In 1959 an art vandal threw an acid on the painting. According to him, he did not directly destroy the work, but the acid "relieves one from the work of destruction".. The Fall of the Damned, conversely known as The Fall of the Rebel Angels is a monumental religious painting by Peter Paul Rubens. It features a jumble of the bodies of the damned, hurled into abyss by archangel Michael and accompanying angels. David Freedberg assessed this painting manner as the "most brilliant assemblages of lusciously naked flesh in Western art". In 1959 an art vandal threw an acid on the painting. According to him, he did not directly destroy the work, but the acid "relieves one from the work of destruction".. 
Passerini Assumption. Author Name: Andrea del Sarto. . Author Movement: Mannerism. . Passerini Assumption (Italian: Assunta Passerini) is a painting by Italian Renaissance artist Andrea del Sarto, painted in 1526. It is housed in the Galleria Palatina of Palazzo Pitti, Florence, Italy.. Passerini Assumption (Italian: Assunta Passerini) is a painting by Italian Renaissance artist Andrea del Sarto, painted in 1526. It is housed in the Galleria Palatina of Palazzo Pitti, Florence, Italy.. 
The Plum Blossoms. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . The Plum Blossoms is a 1948 painting by Henri Matisse.. The Plum Blossoms is a 1948 painting by Henri Matisse.. 
The Oath of Leo III. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Oath of Leo III is a painting by the workshop of the Italian renaissance artist Raphael. The painting was part of Raphael's commission to decorate the rooms that are now known as the Stanze di Raffaello, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. It is located in the room that was named after The Fire in the Borgo, the Stanza dell'incendio del Borgo. In the fresco, Pope Leo III is seen during the trial on December 23 AD 800 during which he was brought face to face with the nephews of his predecessor Pope Hadrian I, who had accused him of misconduct. The assembled bishops declared that they could not judge the pope, after which Leo took an oath of purgation of his own free will.. The Oath of Leo III is a painting by the workshop of the Italian renaissance artist Raphael. The painting was part of Raphael's commission to decorate the rooms that are now known as the Stanze di Raffaello, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. It is located in the room that was named after The Fire in the Borgo, the Stanza dell'incendio del Borgo. In the fresco, Pope Leo III is seen during the trial on December 23 AD 800 during which he was brought face to face with the nephews of his predecessor Pope Hadrian I, who had accused him of misconduct. The assembled bishops declared that they could not judge the pope, after which Leo took an oath of purgation of his own free will.. 
Portrait of a Condottiere. Author Name: Giovanni Bellini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Portrait of a Condottiere is an oil on panel painting by Italian Renaissance artist Giovanni Bellini, executed around 1495-1500. It is housed in the National Gallery of Art at Washington, DC, USA.. The Portrait of a Condottiere is an oil on panel painting by Italian Renaissance artist Giovanni Bellini, executed around 1495-1500. It is housed in the National Gallery of Art at Washington, DC, USA.. 
Spaceship Earth. Author Name: Eino. . . Spaceship Earth is a 350,000-pound Brazilian blue quartzite sculpture created by Finnish American artist Eino. The sculpture was commissioned by Brian Maxwell of Powerbar the Maxwell Family Foundation for the late environmentalist David Brower and its name was often used by Brower referring to mankind traveling through life in a common vehicle. Today the sculpture is located at Kennesaw State University adjacent to the Social Science building, the first LEED-certified building at the University System of Georgia.. Spaceship Earth is a 350,000-pound Brazilian blue quartzite sculpture created by Finnish American artist Eino. The sculpture was commissioned by Brian Maxwell of Powerbar the Maxwell Family Foundation for the late environmentalist David Brower and its name was often used by Brower referring to mankind traveling through life in a common vehicle. Today the sculpture is located at Kennesaw State University adjacent to the Social Science building, the first LEED-certified building at the University System of Georgia. The 175-ton chunk of rock was formed from 88 individual pieces of quartzite and bonded with specially made polyepoxide. After these pieces were in place, Eino attached a life-size bronze model of the late Brower. Additionally, 2,400 bronze pieces were added to the exterior to outline land masses on the earth. Spaceship Earth was completed in August 2006 and unveiled in October. In an unexpected turn of events, the massive sculpture broke apart and started spilling over just two months later. First reports cited poor adhesive and unsound construction contributed to its demise while Eino argued that it had to have been an act of vandalism. The sculpture was rededicated in November 2006.. 
Prometheus. Author Name: Paul Manship. . . Prometheus is a 1934 gilded cast bronze sculpture by Paul Manship, located above Lower Plaza at the Rockefeller Center in Manhattan, New York City. It is 18 feet (5.5 m) tall and weighs 8 tons. Four Prometheus maquettes exist: one at the Smithsonian Institution, one at the Minnesota Museum of Art, and two in private collections.. Prometheus is a 1934 gilded cast bronze sculpture by Paul Manship, located above Lower Plaza at the Rockefeller Center in Manhattan, New York City. It is 18 feet (5.5 m) tall and weighs 8 tons. Four Prometheus maquettes exist: one at the Smithsonian Institution, one at the Minnesota Museum of Art, and two in private collections.. 
Trigger 4. Author Name: Kelly, Lee. . . Trigger 4, also known as Trigger Four, is an outdoor 1979 steel sculpture by Lee Kelly, located on the Reed College campus in Portland, Oregon.. Trigger 4, also known as Trigger Four, is an outdoor 1979 steel sculpture by Lee Kelly, located on the Reed College campus in Portland, Oregon.. 
Antea. Author Name: Parmigianino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . Antea (also known as Portrait of a Young Woman) is a painting by the Italian Mannerist artist Parmigianino, executed around 1524-1527.. Antea (also known as Portrait of a Young Woman) is a painting by the Italian Mannerist artist Parmigianino, executed around 1524-1527.. 
The Swing. Author Name: Jean-Honoré Fragonard. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Rococo. . The Swing (French: L'Escarpolette), also known as The Happy Accidents of the Swing (French: Les Hasards heureux de l'escarpolette, the original title), is an 18th-century oil painting by Jean-Honoré Fragonard in the Wallace Collection in London. It is considered to be one of the masterpieces of the rococo era, and is Fragonard's best known work.. The Swing (French: L'Escarpolette), also known as The Happy Accidents of the Swing (French: Les Hasards heureux de l'escarpolette, the original title), is an 18th-century oil painting by Jean-Honoré Fragonard in the Wallace Collection in London. It is considered to be one of the masterpieces of the rococo era, and is Fragonard's best known work.. 
Pauline Bonaparte as Venus Victrix. Author Name: Antonio Canova. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . Pauline Bonaparte as Venus Victrix (or Venus Victorious) is a semi-nude life-size reclining neo-Classical portrait sculpture by the Italian sculptor Antonio Canova. Reviving the ancient Roman artistic traditions of portrayals of mortal individuals in the guise of the gods, and of the beautiful female form reclining on a couch (as most often seen in reclining portrayals of Hermaphroditi), it was commissioned by Pauline Bonaparte's husband Camillo Borghese and executed in Rome from 1805 to 1808, after the subject's marriage into the Borghese family. It then moved to Camillo's house in Turin, then to Genoa, only arriving in its present home (the Galleria Borghese in Rome) around 1838.. Pauline Bonaparte as Venus Victrix (or Venus Victorious) is a semi-nude life-size reclining neo-Classical portrait sculpture by the Italian sculptor Antonio Canova. Reviving the ancient Roman artistic traditions of portrayals of mortal individuals in the guise of the gods, and of the beautiful female form reclining on a couch (as most often seen in reclining portrayals of Hermaphroditi), it was commissioned by Pauline Bonaparte's husband Camillo Borghese and executed in Rome from 1805 to 1808, after the subject's marriage into the Borghese family. It then moved to Camillo's house in Turin, then to Genoa, only arriving in its present home (the Galleria Borghese in Rome) around 1838.. 
Stumbling Man. Author Name: David K. Rubins. . . Stumbling Man is an outdoor sculpture by American artist David K. Rubins (1902–1985) located on the grounds of the Indianapolis Museum of Art (IMA), which is near downtown Indianapolis, Indiana. The sculpture is cast bronze and is in the shape of a man crouched upon the ground.. Stumbling Man is an outdoor sculpture by American artist David K. Rubins (1902–1985) located on the grounds of the Indianapolis Museum of Art (IMA), which is near downtown Indianapolis, Indiana. The sculpture is cast bronze and is in the shape of a man crouched upon the ground.. 
Coronation gown of Elizabeth II. Author Name: Norman Hartnell. . . Queen Elizabeth II's coronation took place on 2 June 1953. Ordered in October 1952, it took eight months of research, design and workmanship to make the intricate embroidery of her coronation gown. It featured the floral emblems of the countries of the United Kingdom and those of the other states within the Commonwealth of Nations, including the English Tudor rose, Scots thistle, Welsh leek, Irish shamrock, Canadian maple leaf, Australian wattle, New Zealand silver fern, South African protea, lotus flowers for India and Ceylon, and Pakistan's wheat, cotton, and jute.. Queen Elizabeth II's coronation took place on 2 June 1953. Ordered in October 1952, it took eight months of research, design and workmanship to make the intricate embroidery of her coronation gown. It featured the floral emblems of the countries of the United Kingdom and those of the other states within the Commonwealth of Nations, including the English Tudor rose, Scots thistle, Welsh leek, Irish shamrock, Canadian maple leaf, Australian wattle, New Zealand silver fern, South African protea, lotus flowers for India and Ceylon, and Pakistan's wheat, cotton, and jute. The gown, like the Elizabeth's wedding dress and other notable royal dresses of this period, was designed by Norman Hartnell. It was the Queen's wish that the coronation dress should be made of satin, like her wedding dress, with accentuation of regal elegance, but with no undue emphasis on shape. The gown now forms part of the Royal Collection. After the coronation, the dress was worn on several occasions such as when she opened the parliaments in New Zealand (1954), Australia (1954), Ceylon (1954), and Canada (1957).. 
American Gothic. Author Name: Grant Wood. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Regionalism_(art). . American Gothic is a painting by Grant Wood in the collection of the Art Institute of Chicago. Wood's inspiration came from what is now known as the American Gothic House, and his decision to paint the house along with "the kind of people I fancied should live in that house." The painting shows a farmer standing beside a woman that has been interpreted to be either his wife or his daughter. The figures were modeled by Wood's sister, Nan Wood Graham, and Wood & Graham's dentist. The woman is dressed in a colonial print apron evoking 19th-century Americana, and the couple are in the traditional roles of men and women, the man's pitchfork symbolizing hard labor, and the flowers over the woman's right shoulder suggesting domesticity. The plants on the porch of the house are mother-in-law's ton. American Gothic is a painting by Grant Wood in the collection of the Art Institute of Chicago. Wood's inspiration came from what is now known as the American Gothic House, and his decision to paint the house along with "the kind of people I fancied should live in that house." The painting shows a farmer standing beside a woman that has been interpreted to be either his wife or his daughter. The figures were modeled by Wood's sister, Nan Wood Graham, and Wood & Graham's dentist. The woman is dressed in a colonial print apron evoking 19th-century Americana, and the couple are in the traditional roles of men and women, the man's pitchfork symbolizing hard labor, and the flowers over the woman's right shoulder suggesting domesticity. The plants on the porch of the house are mother-in-law's tongue and geranium, which are the same plants as in Wood's 1929 portrait of his mother, Woman with Plants. It is one of the most familiar images in 20th-century American art, and has been widely parodied in American popular culture.. 
The Woman with Gambling Mania. Author Name: Théodore Géricault. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . The Woman with Gambling Mania is an 1822 painting by Théodore Géricault. It is a member of a series of ten portraits of people with specific manias done by Géricault between 1820 and 1824, including Portrait of a Kleptomaniac and Insane Woman. Following the controversy surrounding his Raft of Medusa, Géricault fell into a depression. In return for help by psychiatrist Étienne-Jean Georget, Géricault offered him a series of paintings of mental patients, including this one, in a time when the scientific world was curious about the minds of the mentally insane. A solid example of romanticism, Géricault's portrait of a mental asylum patient attempts to show a specific form of insanity through facial expression.. The Woman with Gambling Mania is an 1822 painting by Théodore Géricault. It is a member of a series of ten portraits of people with specific manias done by Géricault between 1820 and 1824, including Portrait of a Kleptomaniac and Insane Woman. Following the controversy surrounding his Raft of Medusa, Géricault fell into a depression. In return for help by psychiatrist Étienne-Jean Georget, Géricault offered him a series of paintings of mental patients, including this one, in a time when the scientific world was curious about the minds of the mentally insane. A solid example of romanticism, Géricault's portrait of a mental asylum patient attempts to show a specific form of insanity through facial expression. This painting was acquired by the Louvre in 1938.. 
Rose and Silver: The Princess from the Land of Porcelain. Author Name: James Abbott McNeill Whistler. . Author Movement: Founder of Tonalism. . Rose and Silver: The Princess from the Land of Porcelain (better known as The Princess from the Land of Porcelain; also known by the French title La Princesse du pays de la porcelaine) is a painting by American-born artist James Abbott McNeill Whistler. It was painted between 1863 and 1865. The painting currently hangs above the fireplace in the Peacock Room at the Freer Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C.. Rose and Silver: The Princess from the Land of Porcelain (better known as The Princess from the Land of Porcelain; also known by the French title La Princesse du pays de la porcelaine) is a painting by American-born artist James Abbott McNeill Whistler. It was painted between 1863 and 1865. The painting currently hangs above the fireplace in the Peacock Room at the Freer Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C.. 
The Lady of Shalott. Author Name: John William Waterhouse. . . The Lady of Shalott is an 1888 painting by the English Pre-Raphaelite painter John William Waterhouse. It is a representation of a scene from Alfred, Lord Tennyson's 1832 poem of the same name. Waterhouse painted three different versions of this character, in 1888, 1894 and 1915. It is one of his most famous works, the epitome of the style of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood.The Lady of Shalott was donated to the public by Sir Henry Tate in 1894, and is usually on display in Tate Britain, London, in room 1840.. The Lady of Shalott is an 1888 painting by the English Pre-Raphaelite painter John William Waterhouse. It is a representation of a scene from Alfred, Lord Tennyson's 1832 poem of the same name. Waterhouse painted three different versions of this character, in 1888, 1894 and 1915. It is one of his most famous works, the epitome of the style of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood. The Lady of Shalott was donated to the public by Sir Henry Tate in 1894, and is usually on display in Tate Britain, London, in room 1840.. 
The Torchbearers. Author Name: Charles Umlauf. . . The Torchbearers is a 1962 bronze sculpture by Charles Umlauf, installed outside the Flawn Academic Center on the University of Texas at Austin campus in Austin, Texas, United States. It was cast in Milan at the Fonderia Battaglia.. The Torchbearers is a 1962 bronze sculpture by Charles Umlauf, installed outside the Flawn Academic Center on the University of Texas at Austin campus in Austin, Texas, United States. It was cast in Milan at the Fonderia Battaglia.. 
Three Beauties of the Present Day by Utamaro, 1793. Author Name: Kitagawa Utamaro. . . Bijin-ga (美人画 bijin-ga, lit. "beautiful person picture") is a generic term for pictures of beautiful women in Japanese art, especially in woodblock printing of the ukiyo-e genre, which predate photography. Ukiyo-e is a genre of woodblock prints and paintings that was produced in Japan from the 17th century to the 19th century. These woodblock prints depicted beautiful women; kabuki actors and sumo wrestlers; scenes from history and folk tales; travel scenes and landscapes; flowers and animals and erotica. These prints were very popular amongst the Japanese merchants and the middle class of the time. Nearly all ukiyo-e artists produced bijin-ga, it being one of the central themes of the genre. However, a few, including Utamaro, Suzuki Harunobu, Itō Shinsui, Toyohara Chikanobu, Uemura Shōen . Bijin-ga (美人画 bijin-ga, lit. "beautiful person picture") is a generic term for pictures of beautiful women in Japanese art, especially in woodblock printing of the ukiyo-e genre, which predate photography. Ukiyo-e is a genre of woodblock prints and paintings that was produced in Japan from the 17th century to the 19th century. These woodblock prints depicted beautiful women; kabuki actors and sumo wrestlers; scenes from history and folk tales; travel scenes and landscapes; flowers and animals and erotica. These prints were very popular amongst the Japanese merchants and the middle class of the time. Nearly all ukiyo-e artists produced bijin-ga, it being one of the central themes of the genre. However, a few, including Utamaro, Suzuki Harunobu, Itō Shinsui, Toyohara Chikanobu, Uemura Shōen and Torii Kiyonaga, are widely regarded as the greatest innovators and masters of the form.. 
Stravinsky Fountain. Author Name: Jean Tinguely. . . The Stravinsky Fountain (fr: La Fontaine Stravinsky) is a whimsical public fountain ornamented with sixteen works of sculpture, moving and spraying water, representing the works of composer Igor Stravinsky. It was created in 1983 by sculptors Jean Tinguely and Niki de Saint Phalle, and is located on Place Stravinsky, next to the Centre Pompidou, in Paris.. The Stravinsky Fountain (fr: La Fontaine Stravinsky) is a whimsical public fountain ornamented with sixteen works of sculpture, moving and spraying water, representing the works of composer Igor Stravinsky. It was created in 1983 by sculptors Jean Tinguely and Niki de Saint Phalle, and is located on Place Stravinsky, next to the Centre Pompidou, in Paris.. 
The Tragedy  of Lucretia. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Tragedy of Lucretia is a tempera and oil painting on a wood cassone or spalliera panel by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli, painted between 1496 and 1504. Known less formally as the Botticelli Lucretia, it is housed in the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum of Boston, Massachusetts, having been owned by Isabella Stewart Gardner in her lifetime.. The Tragedy of Lucretia is a tempera and oil painting on a wood cassone or spalliera panel by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli, painted between 1496 and 1504. Known less formally as the Botticelli Lucretia, it is housed in the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum of Boston, Massachusetts, having been owned by Isabella Stewart Gardner in her lifetime.. 
Horsewoman. Author Name: Frentz, Rudolf. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Horsewoman is a painting by Russian painter Rudolf Frentz (Russian: Рудольф Рудольфович Френц) (1888-1956). The picture is a portrait of an equestrian of the artist's wife Catherine Anisimovna Stulovskaya (née Frentz).. Horsewoman is a painting by Russian painter Rudolf Frentz (Russian: Рудольф Рудольфович Френц) (1888-1956). The picture is a portrait of an equestrian of the artist's wife Catherine Anisimovna Stulovskaya (née Frentz).. 
Saint Paul. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Saint Paul (Spanish: San Pablo) is a painting by Diego Velázquez that is in the Museu Nacional d'Art de Catalunya in Barcelona, Spain. The piece was created around 1619 during the early stage of Velázquez's artistic career before he moved to Madrid. In the image, Saint Paul is seated holding a book, commonly referenced as a large Gospel book. It is said, that while traveling to Damascus, Paul saw a beam of light and was visited by Jesus, who struck him blind. Three days later, Paul regained his sight and began to preach Christianity to the people.. Saint Paul (Spanish: San Pablo) is a painting by Diego Velázquez that is in the Museu Nacional d'Art de Catalunya in Barcelona, Spain. The piece was created around 1619 during the early stage of Velázquez's artistic career before he moved to Madrid. In the image, Saint Paul is seated holding a book, commonly referenced as a large Gospel book. It is said, that while traveling to Damascus, Paul saw a beam of light and was visited by Jesus, who struck him blind. Three days later, Paul regained his sight and began to preach Christianity to the people.. 
Nude Sitting on a Divan. Author Name: Amedeo Modigliani. . . Nude Sitting on a Divan (The Beautiful Roman Woman) is an oil on canvas painting by Italian artist Amedeo Modigliani depicting a partially draped woman seated with crossed legs against a warm red background. The work was one of a series of nudes painted by Modigliani in 1917 that created a sensation when exhibited in Paris that year. On November 2, 2010, the painting sold at a New York auction for $68.9 million, a record price for an artwork by Modigliani.. Nude Sitting on a Divan (The Beautiful Roman Woman) is an oil on canvas painting by Italian artist Amedeo Modigliani depicting a partially draped woman seated with crossed legs against a warm red background. The work was one of a series of nudes painted by Modigliani in 1917 that created a sensation when exhibited in Paris that year. On November 2, 2010, the painting sold at a New York auction for $68.9 million, a record price for an artwork by Modigliani. The several dozen nudes Modigliani painted between 1916 and 1919 constitute many of his best-known works. Simultaneously abstracted and erotically detailed, they exhibit a formal grace referencing nude figures of the Italian Renaissance while at the same time objectifying their subjects' sexuality; they "exemplify his position between tradition and modernism". The nudes of this period are "displayed boldly, with only the faintest suggestion of setting.... neither demure nor provocative, they are depicted with a degree of objectivity. Yet the uniformly thick, rough application of paint— as if applied by a sculptor's hand— is more concerned with mass and the visceral perception of the female body than with titillation and the re-creation of translucent, tactile flesh". This series of nudes was commissioned by Modigliani's dealer and friend Leopold Zborowski, who lent the artist use of his apartment, supplied models and painting materials, and paid him between fifteen and twenty francs each day for his work. The paintings from this arrangement were thus different from his previous depictions of friends and lovers in that they were funded by Zborowski either for his own collection, as a favor to his friend, or with an eye to their "commercial potential", rather than originating from the artist's personal circle of acquaintances. The Paris show of 1917 was Modigliani's only solo exhibition during his life, and is "notorious" in modern art history for its sensational public reception and the attendant issues of obscenity. The show was closed by police on its opening day, but continued thereafter, most likely after the removal of paintings from the gallery's streetfront window. According to the catalogue description from the 2010 sale at Sotheby's, seven nudes were exhibited in the 1917 show, four of them titled Nu; "the present work may have been among these pictures.... the models' permissiveness and the artist's accessibility to them implied that these oils were post coital-renderings, the women still flush and basking in the afterglow". In 1999 Nude Sitting on a Divan sold at Sotheby's for $16.7 million, a record price for a painting by the artist. The most recent sale far surpassed the pre-sale estimate of $40 million, as well as the previous record for one of Modigliani's works, $52.6 million for a sculpture.. 
Gardner  Held by His Mother. Author Name: Mary Cassatt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Gardner (Cassatt) Held by His Mother is a drypoint print dated circa 1889 by the American painter, printmaker, pastelist, and connoisseur Mary Cassatt. The example illustrated is in the collection of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum and is a gift of Samuel Putnam Avery.. Gardner (Cassatt) Held by His Mother is a drypoint print dated circa 1889 by the American painter, printmaker, pastelist, and connoisseur Mary Cassatt. The example illustrated is in the collection of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum and is a gift of Samuel Putnam Avery.. 
The Agnew Clinic. Author Name: Thomas Eakins. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Agnew Clinic, or, The Clinic of Dr. Agnew, is an 1889 oil painting by American artist Thomas Eakins, Goodrich #235. It was commissioned to honor anatomist and surgeon David Hayes Agnew, on his retirement from teaching at the University of Pennsylvania.. The Agnew Clinic, or, The Clinic of Dr. Agnew, is an 1889 oil painting by American artist Thomas Eakins, Goodrich #235. It was commissioned to honor anatomist and surgeon David Hayes Agnew, on his retirement from teaching at the University of Pennsylvania.. 
The Magic Circle. Author Name: John William Waterhouse. . . The Magic Circle is an oil painting in the Pre-Raphaelite style, created in 1886 by John William Waterhouse. The painting depicts a witch or sorceress drawing a fiery magic circle on the earth to create a ritual space.. The Magic Circle is an oil painting in the Pre-Raphaelite style, created in 1886 by John William Waterhouse. The painting depicts a witch or sorceress drawing a fiery magic circle on the earth to create a ritual space.. 
Madonna della tenda. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Madonna della tenda is a 1514 painting by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael. It shows Mary embracing the child Christ, while the young John the Baptist watches. The design of the painting resembles that of the Madonna della seggiola from the same period.. The Madonna della tenda is a 1514 painting by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael. It shows Mary embracing the child Christ, while the young John the Baptist watches. The design of the painting resembles that of the Madonna della seggiola from the same period.. 
Earthstoppers. Author Name: Joseph Wright. . . Earthstopper on the Banks of the Derwent is a painting by Joseph Wright of Derby originally completed in 1773. The scene shows a man digging at nighttime beside the River Derwent in Derbyshire.. Earthstopper on the Banks of the Derwent is a painting by Joseph Wright of Derby originally completed in 1773. The scene shows a man digging at nighttime beside the River Derwent in Derbyshire.. 
Romeo and Juliet: The Tomb Scene. Author Name: Joseph Wright. . . Romeo and Juliet: the Tomb Scene is a painting by Joseph Wright of Derby, completed by 1790, exhibited in 1790 and 1791, shown in the Derby Exhibition of 1839 in the Mechanics' Institute, and now displayed in Derby Museum and Art Gallery. The painting exhibits Wright's famed skill with nocturnal and candlelit scenes. It depicts the moment in Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet when Juliet, kneeling beside Romeo's body, hears a footstep and draws a dagger to kill herself. The line is "Yea, noise? Then I'll be brief. O happy dagger!". Romeo and Juliet: the Tomb Scene is a painting by Joseph Wright of Derby, completed by 1790, exhibited in 1790 and 1791, shown in the Derby Exhibition of 1839 in the Mechanics' Institute, and now displayed in Derby Museum and Art Gallery. The painting exhibits Wright's famed skill with nocturnal and candlelit scenes. It depicts the moment in Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet when Juliet, kneeling beside Romeo's body, hears a footstep and draws a dagger to kill herself. The line is "Yea, noise? Then I'll be brief. O happy dagger!". 
Convent Thoughts. Author Name: Collins, Charles Allston. . . Convent Thoughts is a painting by the Pre-Raphaelite painter Charles Allston Collins which was created between 1850 and 1851. Collins sent it to the Royal Academy of Arts in 1851 where it was exhibited.The painting shows a nun contemplating a passion flower symbolising the crucifixion of Christ. She is standing in a walled garden full of minutely detailed flowers. In her left hand she holds an illuminated missal, held not as though she had been reading it but so as to show us the Annunciation and the Crucifixion. Her costume shows that she is a novice, presumably meditating on her final vows.. Convent Thoughts is a painting by the Pre-Raphaelite painter Charles Allston Collins which was created between 1850 and 1851. Collins sent it to the Royal Academy of Arts in 1851 where it was exhibited. The painting shows a nun contemplating a passion flower symbolising the crucifixion of Christ. She is standing in a walled garden full of minutely detailed flowers. In her left hand she holds an illuminated missal, held not as though she had been reading it but so as to show us the Annunciation and the Crucifixion. Her costume shows that she is a novice, presumably meditating on her final vows. The flowers were painted in the Oxford garden of Thomas Combe, an early collector of Pre-Raphaelite paintings, and the model was his housemaid, Frances Sarah Ludlow, later Mrs Brucker. Combe bought the painting; in 1894 he bequeathed his art collection to the Ashmolean Museum, Oxford and Convent Thoughts remains in the Museum's collection to the present day. Although Collins was never formally a member of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, he was in sympathy with their aims and painted in their immensely detailed style. Convent Thoughts has a place in the history of Pre-Raphaelitism, because the tide of opinion, initially hostile, was to some extent turned by a letter to The Times on 13 May 1851 from the influential critic John Ruskin praising the Pre-Raphaelite paintings at the Academy exhibition, in particular Convent Thoughts, about which he wrote: In a curious footnote to this story, it has recently been pointed out that there is in fact no Alisma Plantago in the picture.. 
Milwaukee. Author Name: George Greenamyer. . . "Milwaukee" is a public artwork by Cleveland, Ohio artist George Mossman Greenamyer (b. 1939), located at the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee; Golda Meir Library, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States of America.. "Milwaukee" is a public artwork by Cleveland, Ohio artist George Mossman Greenamyer (b. 1939), located at the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee; Golda Meir Library, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States of America.. 
Danae. Author Name: Gustav Klimt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Art_Nouveau. . Danaë is an oil painting by Gustav Klimt, created in 1907. An example of Symbolism, the canvas measures 77 x 83 cm, and is in the Galerie Würthle in Vienna. Danaë was a popular subject in the early 1900s for many artists; she was used as the quintessential symbol of divine love, and transcendence.While imprisoned by her father, King of Argos, in a tower of bronze, Danaë was visited by Zeus, symbolized here as the golden rain flowing between her legs. It is apparent from the subject's face that she is aroused by the golden stream.. Danaë is an oil painting by Gustav Klimt, created in 1907. An example of Symbolism, the canvas measures 77 x 83 cm, and is in the Galerie Würthle in Vienna. Danaë was a popular subject in the early 1900s for many artists; she was used as the quintessential symbol of divine love, and transcendence. While imprisoned by her father, King of Argos, in a tower of bronze, Danaë was visited by Zeus, symbolized here as the golden rain flowing between her legs. It is apparent from the subject's face that she is aroused by the golden stream. In this work, she is curled in a royal purple veil which refers to her imperial lineage. Sometime after her celestial visitation she gave birth to a son, Perseus, who is cited later in Greek mythology for slaying the Gorgon Medusa and rescuing Andromeda. Many early portrayals of Danaë were erotic; other paintings completed in similar style are Klimt's Medicine (1900–1907), and Water Snakes (1904–1907).. 
Temptation of St. Thomas. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Temptation of St. Thomas is a painting by the Spanish Baroque painter Diego Velázquez, executed in 1632 and housed in the Museum of Sacred Art of Orihuela Cathedral, southern Spain.The work, for a period, was attributed to Murcian painter Nicolás de Villacis, until it was recognized as Velázquez's in the 1920s. It portrays the episode of the life of St. Thomas of Aquino when, as a novice, he resisted the temptation represented by a prostitute, who is visible in the background door. The saint is held by an angel, while another is preparing to dress him with a white ribbon, representing chastity.. The Temptation of St. Thomas is a painting by the Spanish Baroque painter Diego Velázquez, executed in 1632 and housed in the Museum of Sacred Art of Orihuela Cathedral, southern Spain. The work, for a period, was attributed to Murcian painter Nicolás de Villacis, until it was recognized as Velázquez's in the 1920s. It portrays the episode of the life of St. Thomas of Aquino when, as a novice, he resisted the temptation represented by a prostitute, who is visible in the background door. The saint is held by an angel, while another is preparing to dress him with a white ribbon, representing chastity.. 
La Grande Vitesse. Author Name: Alexander "Sandy" Calder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstraction_(art). . La Grande Vitesse, a public sculpture by American artist Alexander Calder, is located on the large concrete plaza surrounding City Hall and the Kent County Building in Grand Rapids, Michigan, United States.. La Grande Vitesse, a public sculpture by American artist Alexander Calder, is located on the large concrete plaza surrounding City Hall and the Kent County Building in Grand Rapids, Michigan, United States.. 
Sunlight. Author Name: Frank Weston Benson. . . Sunlight is an oil painting by Frank Weston Benson currently in the permanent collection at the Indianapolis Museum of Art.. Sunlight is an oil painting by Frank Weston Benson currently in the permanent collection at the Indianapolis Museum of Art.. 
Portrait of Henry VIII. Author Name: Hans Holbein the Younger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Northern_Renaissance. . Portrait of Henry VIII is a lost work by Hans Holbein the Younger depicting Henry VIII. While destroyed by fire in 1698 it is still well known today through many copies. It is one of the most iconic images of Henry and is one of the most famous portraits of any British monarch. It was originally created in 1536–1537 as part of a mural showing the Tudor dynasty at the Palace of Whitehall, London.. Portrait of Henry VIII is a lost work by Hans Holbein the Younger depicting Henry VIII. While destroyed by fire in 1698 it is still well known today through many copies. It is one of the most iconic images of Henry and is one of the most famous portraits of any British monarch. It was originally created in 1536–1537 as part of a mural showing the Tudor dynasty at the Palace of Whitehall, London.. 
The 28th Regiment at Quatre Bras. Author Name: Elizabeth Thompson. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/History_painting. . The 28th Regiment at Quatre Bras is an oil painting on canvas from 1875, painted by Elizabeth Thompson (she became better known as Lady Butler after her marriage to William Butler in 1877). The painting is 97.2 centimeters (38.3 in) high and 216.2 centimeters (85.1 in) wide. It is in the National Gallery of Victoria, Melbourne, Australia.The heavy gold frame bears the inscription "Egypt" at the top, and "Quatre-Bras 1815" below.. The 28th Regiment at Quatre Bras is an oil painting on canvas from 1875, painted by Elizabeth Thompson (she became better known as Lady Butler after her marriage to William Butler in 1877). The painting is 97.2 centimeters (38.3 in) high and 216.2 centimeters (85.1 in) wide. It is in the National Gallery of Victoria, Melbourne, Australia. Thompson based the painting on the account of the battle in a book written by Captain William Siborne, the History of the War in France and Belgium in 1815, first published in 1844. The painting portrays the 28th (North Gloucestershire) Regiment of Foot, of the British Army, on 16 June 1815, at the Battle of Quatre Bras. The battle, part of the Waterloo Campaign of the Hundred Days, was just two days prior to the Battle of Waterloo. The regiment held off attacks from French cavalry at Quatre Bras. Thompson shows the regiment formed in a square in a field of rye, withstanding attacks, at approximately 17:00, from lancers and cuirassiers led by Marshal Ney. Thompson went to great lengths to create models for her work. In July 1874, she arranged for 300 soldiers from the Royal Engineers to pose in a reconstruction of the square formation, and to fire their rifles, to recreate the smoky scene. Several of the soldiers also modelled in Thompson's studio. Thompson observed horses at Sanger's Circus and the Horse Guards riding school, as models for the French cavalry. She also arrange for a group of children to trample down a field of rye in Henley-on-Thames, to recreate the setting. She had copies of the historic uniforms made by a government manufacturer in Pimlico. However, the shako she depicts the regiment wearing is incorrect. Whilst nearly all Regiments of Foot in the British Army had adopted the false fronted Belgic shako since 1812, so the replica uniforms were correct for a standard line regiment, the 28th Regiment continued to wear the older stovepipe shakos during the Hundred Days campaign. The older headwear can be seen clearly in William Barnes Wollen's painting: 28th Gloucester Regiment at Waterloo.[citation needed] The heavy gold frame bears the inscription "Egypt" at the top, and "Quatre-Bras 1815" below. The work was exhibited at the Royal Academy Summer Exhibition in 1875, the year after Elizabeth Thompson exhibited her acclaimed The Roll Call. It was bought by the National Gallery of Victoria, Melbourne, Australia, in 1884.. 
La Femme au perroquet. Author Name: Gustave Courbet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . La Femme au perroquet (Woman with a Parrot) is an oil painting on canvas by French artist Gustave Courbet. It was the first nude by the artist to be accepted by the Paris Salon in 1866 after a previous entry in 1864 was rejected as indecent.. La Femme au perroquet (Woman with a Parrot) is an oil painting on canvas by French artist Gustave Courbet. It was the first nude by the artist to be accepted by the Paris Salon in 1866 after a previous entry in 1864 was rejected as indecent.. 
Water Lilies. Author Name: Claude Monet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Water Lilies is a painting by impressionist Claude Monet painted during his series called Water Lilies. The painting depicts a scene in a French pond showing light reflecting off the water with Water Lilies on the surface. It was painted in 1919 and as of 2012 is on display in New York's Metropolitan Museum of Art.. The Water Lilies is a painting by impressionist Claude Monet painted during his series called Water Lilies. The painting depicts a scene in a French pond showing light reflecting off the water with Water Lilies on the surface. It was painted in 1919 and as of 2012 is on display in New York's Metropolitan Museum of Art.. 
Tahitian Women on the Beach. Author Name: Paul Gauguin. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Tahitian Women on the Beach (French: Femmes de Tahiti) is an 1891 painting by Paul Gauguin. The painting depicts two women on the Pacific island of Tahiti on the beach.The painting is currently in the collection of the Musée d'Orsay, located in Paris, France.In 1892 Gauguin painted a similar painting Parau api, (Two Women of Tahiti) which is in the collection of the Galerie Neue Meister in Dresden. In Tahitian, "parau" means word and "api" means new. Thus "parau api" means news. A common greeting is "Eaha te parau api", or what's new?. Tahitian Women on the Beach (French: Femmes de Tahiti) is an 1891 painting by Paul Gauguin. The painting depicts two women on the Pacific island of Tahiti on the beach. The painting is currently in the collection of the Musée d'Orsay, located in Paris, France. In 1892 Gauguin painted a similar painting Parau api, (Two Women of Tahiti) which is in the collection of the Galerie Neue Meister in Dresden. In Tahitian, "parau" means word and "api" means new. Thus "parau api" means news. A common greeting is "Eaha te parau api", or what's new?. 
Portrait of Antoine-Laurent Lavoisier and his wife. Author Name: Jacques-Louis David. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . The Portrait of Antoine-Laurent Lavoisier and his wife is a double portrait of the French chemist Antoine Lavoisier and his wife and collaborator Marie-Anne Pierrette Paulze, commissioned from the French painter Jacques-Louis David in 1788 by Marie-Anne (who had been taught drawing by David). It is now in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.. The Portrait of Antoine-Laurent Lavoisier and his wife is a double portrait of the French chemist Antoine Lavoisier and his wife and collaborator Marie-Anne Pierrette Paulze, commissioned from the French painter Jacques-Louis David in 1788 by Marie-Anne (who had been taught drawing by David). It is now in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.. 
Virtù Cardinali e Teologali. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Cardinal and Theological Virtues is a fresco by Raphael as part of his Stanza della Segnatura in the Palazzi Vaticani in Vatican City. It is 6.6m wide at the base. The cardinal virtues are personified as three women in a bucolic landscape, and the theological virtues by cupids:. The Cardinal and Theological Virtues is a fresco by Raphael as part of his Stanza della Segnatura in the Palazzi Vaticani in Vatican City. It is 6.6m wide at the base. The cardinal virtues are personified as three women in a bucolic landscape, and the theological virtues by cupids: Another interpretation might see Prudence as holding the reins and Temperance with two faces. Prudence is traditionally called auriga virtutum (the charioteer of the virtues); it guides the other virtues by setting rule and measure and Temperance moderates the attraction of the pleasures of the senses and provides balance in the use of created goods. See the Catechism of the Catholic Church (1806, and 1838).. 
''Fiesole Altarpiece. Author Name: Blessed John of Fiesole, O.P.. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Fiesole Altarpiece is a painting by the Italian early Renaissance master Fra Angelico, executed around 1424–1425. It is housed in the Convent of San Domenico, Fiesole, central Italy. The background was repainted by Lorenzo di Credi in 1501.. The Fiesole Altarpiece is a painting by the Italian early Renaissance master Fra Angelico, executed around 1424–1425. It is housed in the Convent of San Domenico, Fiesole, central Italy. The background was repainted by Lorenzo di Credi in 1501.. 
Illusion. Author Name: Lik, Peter. . . Illusion is a photograph made by Australian-born landscape photographer, Peter Lik in 2013. In 2014, a print was sold to a private collector for $2.4 million.[better source needed]The photograph was produced as an Elite Edition 1 of 1. It is an abstract depiction of an outdoor winter setting in Telluride, Colorado.The 1 of 1 print was acquired by a private collector.. Illusion is a photograph made by Australian-born landscape photographer, Peter Lik in 2013. In 2014, a print was sold to a private collector for $2.4 million.[better source needed] The photograph was produced as an Elite Edition 1 of 1. It is an abstract depiction of an outdoor winter setting in Telluride, Colorado. Lik produced the print on Fujifilm, Fujiflex Crystal Archive - Silver Halide and then placed it in a ½” Optically Clear, Cast Acrylic Frame. The image itself measures 73 1/2”w x 48 1/2”h (186.69 cm x 123.19 cm) while the frame measures 73 ½”w x 48 ½”h x 7/16”d (186.69 cm x 123.19 cm x 1.11 cm).[citation needed] The 1 of 1 print was acquired by a private collector.. 
Lime Green Icicle Tower. Author Name: Dale Chihuly. . . Lime Green Icicle Tower is a 2011 glass and steel sculpture by American artist Dale Chihuly. Housed in the Museum of Fine Arts (MFA) in Boston, Massachusetts, it has been on display in the Ruth and Carl J. Shapiro Family Courtyard since the 2011 exhibit "Chihuly: Through the Looking Glass". The sculpture proved so popular during the exhibit that the museum launched a fundraising campaign to purchase the piece.. Lime Green Icicle Tower is a 2011 glass and steel sculpture by American artist Dale Chihuly. Housed in the Museum of Fine Arts (MFA) in Boston, Massachusetts, it has been on display in the Ruth and Carl J. Shapiro Family Courtyard since the 2011 exhibit "Chihuly: Through the Looking Glass". The sculpture proved so popular during the exhibit that the museum launched a fundraising campaign to purchase the piece.. 
Ecce Ancilla Domini. Author Name: Dante Gabriel Rossetti. . . Ecce Ancilla Domini (Latin: "Behold the handmaiden of the Lord"), or The Annunciation, is an oil painting by the English artist Dante Gabriel Rossetti, first painted in 1850 and now in Tate Britain in London. The Latin title is a quotation from the Vulgate text of the first chapter of the Gospel of Saint Luke, describing the Annunciation, where Mary accepts the message brought to her by the Angel Gabriel that she would give birth to a child (Jesus) by God.. Ecce Ancilla Domini (Latin: "Behold the handmaiden of the Lord"), or The Annunciation, is an oil painting by the English artist Dante Gabriel Rossetti, first painted in 1850 and now in Tate Britain in London. The Latin title is a quotation from the Vulgate text of the first chapter of the Gospel of Saint Luke, describing the Annunciation, where Mary accepts the message brought to her by the Angel Gabriel that she would give birth to a child (Jesus) by God.. 
Daubigny's Garden. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Daubigny's Garden, painted three times by Vincent van Gogh, depicts the enclosed garden of Charles-François Daubigny, a painter whom Van Gogh admired throughout his life.Van Gogh started with a small study of a section of the garden. Then he worked on two double-square paintings of the full walled garden. The paintings were made in Auvers between May and July 1890, during the last few months of his life. All three paintings are titled Daubigny's Garden and are distinguished by the museums they reside in: Kunstmuseum Basel, Hiroshima Museum of Art and Van Gogh Museum.. Daubigny's Garden, painted three times by Vincent van Gogh, depicts the enclosed garden of Charles-François Daubigny, a painter whom Van Gogh admired throughout his life. Van Gogh started with a small study of a section of the garden. Then he worked on two double-square paintings of the full walled garden. The paintings were made in Auvers between May and July 1890, during the last few months of his life. All three paintings are titled Daubigny's Garden and are distinguished by the museums they reside in: Kunstmuseum Basel, Hiroshima Museum of Art and Van Gogh Museum.. 
Big Red. Author Name: Beasley, Bruce. . . Big Red, also known as Red, is an outdoor 1974 steel sculpture by Bruce Beasley, installed at West 7th Avenue between Washington and Jefferson streets in Eugene, Oregon, United States.. Big Red, also known as Red, is an outdoor 1974 steel sculpture by Bruce Beasley, installed at West 7th Avenue between Washington and Jefferson streets in Eugene, Oregon, United States.. 
Chair of Saint Peter. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Chair of Saint Peter (Latin: Cathedra Petri), also known as the Throne of Saint Peter, is a relic conserved in St. Peter's Basilica, the Vatican, the headquarters of the Roman Catholic Church. The relic is a wooden throne that was long believed to have been used by the Apostle Saint Peter, the leader of the Early Christians in Rome and traditionally regarded by Catholicas as the first Pope. In fact, the Vatican recognises that the chair was a gift from Holy Roman Emperor Charles the Bald to Pope John VIII in 875.The wooden throne is enclosed in a sculpted gilt bronze casing designed by Gian Lorenzo Bernini and executed between 1647 and 1653.. The Chair of Saint Peter (Latin: Cathedra Petri), also known as the Throne of Saint Peter, is a relic conserved in St. Peter's Basilica, the Vatican, the headquarters of the Roman Catholic Church. The relic is a wooden throne that was long believed to have been used by the Apostle Saint Peter, the leader of the Early Christians in Rome and traditionally regarded by Catholicas as the first Pope. In fact, the Vatican recognises that the chair was a gift from Holy Roman Emperor Charles the Bald to Pope John VIII in 875.The wooden throne is enclosed in a sculpted gilt bronze casing designed by Gian Lorenzo Bernini and executed between 1647 and 1653. The Chair is the cathedra of St. Peter's Basilica, cathedra being Latin that originally means "chair" or "throne" but now means the chair or seat of a bishop (hence the term cathedral for the main church in an episcopal see). The Chair was once used by the popes.. 
Battle Between Carnival and Lent. Author Name: Molenaer, Jan Miense. . . Battle Between Carnival and Lent is an oil painting by Dutch artist Jan Miense Molenaer, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. Painted roughly 1633-1634, it depicts a brawl between rowdy peasants, representing Carnival, and a group of monks, representing Lent. The rowdy combatants are armed with comical implements representing their sides, such as a peasant with a beer tankard battling a monk armed with fish.. Battle Between Carnival and Lent is an oil painting by Dutch artist Jan Miense Molenaer, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. Painted roughly 1633-1634, it depicts a brawl between rowdy peasants, representing Carnival, and a group of monks, representing Lent. The rowdy combatants are armed with comical implements representing their sides, such as a peasant with a beer tankard battling a monk armed with fish.. 
Black Fire I. Author Name: Barnett Newman. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . Black Fire I is a display of abstract expressionism painted by Barnett Newman, in 1961.. Black Fire I is a display of abstract expressionism painted by Barnett Newman, in 1961.. 
Captain Lord George Graham in his Cabin. Author Name: William  Hogarth. . . Captain Lord George Graham in his Cabin is a 1745 oil-on-canvas painting by the English artist William Hogarth. A conversational picture, it shows Captain Lord George Graham, of the Royal Navy, in the cabin of his ship with several people.. Captain Lord George Graham in his Cabin is a 1745 oil-on-canvas painting by the English artist William Hogarth. A conversational picture, it shows Captain Lord George Graham, of the Royal Navy, in the cabin of his ship with several people. The painting was probably commissioned by Graham to commemorate a naval battle he had fought recently. While commanding a 24-gun sixth rate, he had been one of three British ships to attack a squadron of three powerful French privateers and their prizes. The British were successful in their engagement, capturing all of the prizes, and all but one of the privateers. Lauded for his achievements, Graham was given another, larger, ship to command. The painting is probably set aboard this new command, the 60-gun HMS Nottingham, and shows Graham relaxing in the great cabin before a meal, smoking a pipe. With him are the ship's chaplain and clerk, who sing and listen to music played by a black servant. A steward brings a roast duck to the table. Two dogs are also present in the scene, one joins in the singing, the other wears a wig and reads a sheet of music. The scene contains elements of satire and symbolism, in common with Hogarth's other works. The relaxed scene contrasts the tension of the naval battle it commemorates, with elements of humour including the officious pose and behaviour of one of the dogs, who apes Graham's official position. The steward looks out of the painting at the viewer with a smile, while obliviously tipping gravy down the chaplain's back. The positioning and depiction of Graham and the black servant invite comparisons, with Hogarth's presentation of black subjects in paintings being studied by later academics. Hogarth drew from his own experience in group portraits, and was probably influenced by an earlier cabin work by Bartolomeo Nazari. Graham's enjoyment of the painting was short-lived, he died in 1747. His family kept the portrait in their collections until 1932, when it was sold to Sir James Caird, who subsequently donated it to the National Maritime Museum, where it remains.. 
Rome, From Mount Aventine. Author Name: J. M. W. Turner. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . Rome, From Mount Aventine is an 1835 painting by J M W Turner, based on drawings made by him in the city in 1828. It shows a view of the city of Rome from the Aventine Hill.It was exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1836, where it was described by the Morning Post as “one of those amazing pictures by which Mr Turner dazzles the imagination and confounds all criticism: it is beyond praise”.. Rome, From Mount Aventine is an 1835 painting by J M W Turner, based on drawings made by him in the city in 1828. It shows a view of the city of Rome from the Aventine Hill. It was exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1836, where it was described by the Morning Post as “one of those amazing pictures by which Mr Turner dazzles the imagination and confounds all criticism: it is beyond praise”. It had been commissioned from Turner by Hugh Andrew Johnstone Munro of Novar and remained in his family collection until it was bought by the 5th Earl of Roseberry in 1878. It then remained in the Roseberry collection until 2014. It was sold at Sotheby's in London on 3 December 2014 to a telephone bidder for £30.3m including buyer’s premium, having had an estimate of £15-20m.. 
Bathsheba at Her Bath. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Bathsheba at Her Bath (or Bathsheba with King David's Letter) is an oil painting by the Dutch artist Rembrandt (1606–1669) finished in 1654.A depiction that is both sensual and empathetic, it shows a moment from the Old Testament story in which King David sees Bathsheba bathing and, entranced, seduces and impregnates her. In order to marry Bathsheba and conceal his sin, David sends her husband into battle and orders his generals to abandon him, leaving him to certain death.. Bathsheba at Her Bath (or Bathsheba with King David's Letter) is an oil painting by the Dutch artist Rembrandt (1606–1669) finished in 1654. A depiction that is both sensual and empathetic, it shows a moment from the Old Testament story in which King David sees Bathsheba bathing and, entranced, seduces and impregnates her. In order to marry Bathsheba and conceal his sin, David sends her husband into battle and orders his generals to abandon him, leaving him to certain death. While the scene of David spying on Bathsheba had been painted by earlier artists, Rembrandt's depiction differs in its tight pictorial focus and erotic vitality, achieved through broad, thick brushstrokes and vibrant coloration. The painting hangs in The Louvre; it is one of 583 works donated by Dr. Louis La Caze in 1869. For Kenneth Clark, the canvas is "Rembrandt's greatest painting of the nude". Its insight into Bathsheba's moral dilemma has been described as "one of the great achievements of western painting.". 
Saint Sebastian. Author Name: Titian. . . Saint Sebastian is a 1570-72 painting of Saint Sebastian by Titian, now in the Hermitage Museum in Saint Petersburg.. Saint Sebastian is a 1570-72 painting of Saint Sebastian by Titian, now in the Hermitage Museum in Saint Petersburg.. 
The Death of Cleopatra. Author Name: Juan Luna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Death of Cleopatra (Spanish: La Muerte de Cleopatra), also known simply as Cleopatra, is an 1881 painting made by the Filipino painter Juan Luna. The famous painting was a silver medalist or second prize winner during the 1881 National Exposition of Fine Arts in Madrid (Exposicion Nacional de Bellas Artes). The 1881 Madrid painting contest was Luna's first art exposition. Because of the exposure, Luna received a pension scholarship at the Ayuntamiento de Manila. After the painting competition, Luna sold it for 5,000 Spanish pesetas, the highest price for a painting at the time. As Luna's "graduation work", The Death of Cleopatra was acquired by the Spanish government for one thousand duros.. The Death of Cleopatra (Spanish: La Muerte de Cleopatra ), also known simply as Cleopatra, is an 1881 painting made by the Filipino painter Juan Luna. The famous painting was a silver medalist or second prize winner during the 1881 National Exposition of Fine Arts in Madrid (Exposicion Nacional de Bellas Artes). The 1881 Madrid painting contest was Luna's first art exposition. Because of the exposure, Luna received a pension scholarship at the Ayuntamiento de Manila. After the painting competition, Luna sold it for 5,000 Spanish pesetas, the highest price for a painting at the time. As Luna's "graduation work", The Death of Cleopatra was acquired by the Spanish government for one thousand duros.. 
St. George and the Dragon. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . St. George and the Dragon is a small cabinet painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael, painted between 1504 and 1506, and now in the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. The saint wears the blue garter of the English Order of the Garter, reflecting the award of this decoration in 1504 to Raphael's patron Guidobaldo da Montefeltro, Duke of Urbino, by King Henry VII of England. The first word of the order's motto, "HONI" can be made out. The painting was presumably commissioned by the Duke, either to present to the English emissary who brought the regalia to Urbino, Sir Gilbert Talbot, or to Henry himself—recent scholarship suggests the latter. The honour paid to a minor Italian ruler reflected Henry's appreciation of the cultural prestige of Renaissance Italy as much a. St. George and the Dragon is a small cabinet painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael, painted between 1504 and 1506, and now in the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. The saint wears the blue garter of the English Order of the Garter, reflecting the award of this decoration in 1504 to Raphael's patron Guidobaldo da Montefeltro, Duke of Urbino, by King Henry VII of England. The first word of the order's motto, "HONI" can be made out. The painting was presumably commissioned by the Duke, either to present to the English emissary who brought the regalia to Urbino, Sir Gilbert Talbot, or to Henry himself—recent scholarship suggests the latter. The honour paid to a minor Italian ruler reflected Henry's appreciation of the cultural prestige of Renaissance Italy as much as any diplomatic purpose. The traditional subject, Saint George and the Dragon, combining chivalry and Christianity, is appropriate for the occasion; like his father, Guidobaldo was a condottiero, or proprietor of a band of mercenary soldiers. In the early stages of his career Raphael painted a number of tiny cabinet paintings, including another St George in the Louvre, and the Vision of a Knight in the National Gallery in London.. 
Landscape Near Figueras. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Landscape Near Figueras (1910) is a painting by the Spanish artist Salvador Dalí. This is one of the earliest known works by Dalí, having been painted when he was about six years old.At the beginning of Dalí's career, his primary influence was from the Impressionist movement. This painting is one of the purest examples of Dalí's impressionist period. Over the next ten years he would use increasingly brilliant colors and lighting until the 1920s, when he began creating cubist and Surrealist compositions.. Landscape Near Figueras (1910) is a painting by the Spanish artist Salvador Dalí. This is one of the earliest known works by Dalí, having been painted when he was about six years old. At the beginning of Dalí's career, his primary influence was from the Impressionist movement. This painting is one of the purest examples of Dalí's impressionist period. Over the next ten years he would use increasingly brilliant colors and lighting until the 1920s, when he began creating cubist and Surrealist compositions. This work was done during Dalí's first, "Developmental Period" which roughly lasted until 1928-1929. This period predates Surrealism and during this time he emulated and mastered existing styles of art, most notably the Baroque, Classical, Impressionistic, Cubist forms. Accordingly, the work exemplifies Dalí's early interest in impressionism. Landscape Near Figueras was painted in oil over a 14 x 9 cm postcard. The sky was painted thinly, allowing part of the design of the postcard to show through. It was part of the private collection of Mr. Albert Field in Astoria, Queens, New York but now is part of the permanent collection of the Salvador Dalí Museum in St. Petersburg, Florida.. 
Proserpine. Author Name: Dante Gabriel Rossetti. . . Proserpine (also Proserpina) is an oil painting on canvas by English artist and poet Dante Gabriel Rossetti, painted in 1874 and currently housed at Tate Britain.. Proserpine (also Proserpina) is an oil painting on canvas by English artist and poet Dante Gabriel Rossetti, painted in 1874 and currently housed at Tate Britain.. 
Blue Horses. Author Name: Franz Marc. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Expressionism. . Blue Horses or Die grossen blauen Pferde (The Large Blue Horses) is a 1911 painting by German painter and printmaker Franz Marc (1880–1916). In 1911, Marc was a founding member of Der Blaue Reiter (The Blue Rider), and was the center of a circle of German and Russian expatriate artists with August Macke, Wassily Kandinsky and several others whose works were seminal to the development of German Expressionism.. Blue Horses or Die grossen blauen Pferde (The Large Blue Horses) is a 1911 painting by German painter and printmaker Franz Marc (1880–1916). In 1911, Marc was a founding member of Der Blaue Reiter (The Blue Rider), and was the center of a circle of German and Russian expatriate artists with August Macke, Wassily Kandinsky and several others whose works were seminal to the development of German Expressionism. This work, which represents three vividly coloured blue horses looking down in front of a landscape of rolling red hills, is characterized by its bright primary colors and a portrayal that utilizes cubist style, stark simplicity, and a profound sense of emotion. According to the 'Encyclopædia Britannica', "the powerfully simplified and rounded outlines of the horses are echoed in the rhythms of the landscape background, uniting both animals and setting into a vigorous and harmonious organic whole.". It is thought that the curved lines used to depict the subject are to emphasize "a sense of harmony, peace, and balance" in a spiritually-pure animal world and that by viewing human beings are allowed to join this harmony. Marc gave an emotional or psychological meaning or purpose to the colors he used in his work: blue was used for masculinity and spirituality, yellow represented feminine joy, and red encased the sound of violence and of base matter. Marc used blue throughout his career to represent spirituality and his use of vivid color is thought to have been an attempt to eschew the material world to evoke a spiritual or transcendental essence. This oil painting on canvas measures 41.625 inches by 71.3125 inches (unframed) and is unsigned. This is one of Marc's earliest major works depicting animals and the more important of his series of portraits of horses in various colors. It is often thought that Marc thought animals to be more pure and more beautiful than man and represented a more pantheistic understanding of the divine or of spirituality.Swiss painter Jean Bloé Niestlé (1884–1942) urged Marc to "capture the essence of the animal." According to art historian Gabi La Cava, Marc depicts "the feeling that is evoked by the subject matter is most important"—more so that zoological accuracy. In 1942, Blue Horses was purchased by the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis, Minnesota through The T. B. Walker Foundation and its Gilbert M. Walker Memorial Fund. This was the first major modernist work to enter the collection.. 
Madonna with Saints John the Baptist and Donatus. Author Name: Andrea del Verrocchio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Madonna with the Saints John the Baptist and Donatus is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Andrea del Verrocchio, circa 1475-1483. It is housed in the Cathedral of Pistoia, Italy. The painting depicts the Virgin Mary, and Saints John the Baptist and Donatus of Fiesole.. The Madonna with the Saints John the Baptist and Donatus is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Andrea del Verrocchio, circa 1475-1483. It is housed in the Cathedral of Pistoia, Italy. The painting depicts the Virgin Mary, and Saints John the Baptist and Donatus of Fiesole.. 
The Roman Maidens. Author Name: Juan Luna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Las Damas Romanas (literally, "The Roman Dames"), also known as The Roman Maidens, The Roman Women, or The Roman Ladies, is an oil on canvas painting by Juan Luna, one of the most important Filipino painters of the Spanish period in the Philippines. It was painted by Luna when he was a student of the school of painting in the Real Academia de Bellas Artes de San Fernando (Royal Academy of Fine Arts of San Fernando) in Madrid, Spain in 1877. Alejo Valera, a Spanish painting teacher, took Luna as an apprentice and brought him to Rome where Luna created Las Damas Romanas in 1882. Luna spent six years in Rome from 1878 to 1884.. Las Damas Romanas (literally, "The Roman Dames"), also known as The Roman Maidens, The Roman Women, or The Roman Ladies, is an oil on canvas painting by Juan Luna, one of the most important Filipino painters of the Spanish period in the Philippines. It was painted by Luna when he was a student of the school of painting in the Real Academia de Bellas Artes de San Fernando (Royal Academy of Fine Arts of San Fernando) in Madrid, Spain in 1877. Alejo Valera, a Spanish painting teacher, took Luna as an apprentice and brought him to Rome where Luna created Las Damas Romanas in 1882. Luna spent six years in Rome from 1878 to 1884.. 
Cupid's Span. Author Name: Bruggen, Coosje van. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Cupid's Span is an outdoor sculpture by married artists Claes Oldenburg and Coosje van Bruggen, installed along the Embarcadero in San Francisco, California, in the United States. The 60-foot (18 m) sculpture, commissioned by GAP founders Donald and Doris F. Fisher, depicts a partial bow and piece of an arrow.. Cupid's Span is an outdoor sculpture by married artists Claes Oldenburg and Coosje van Bruggen, installed along the Embarcadero in San Francisco, California, in the United States. The 60-foot (18 m) sculpture, commissioned by GAP founders Donald and Doris F. Fisher, depicts a partial bow and piece of an arrow.. 
Charing Cross Bridge. Author Name: Claude Monet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Charing Cross Bridge is a series of oil paintings by French artist Claude Monet. Painted in between 1899 and 1904, they depict a misty, impressionistic Charing Cross Bridge in London.. Charing Cross Bridge is a series of oil paintings by French artist Claude Monet. Painted in between 1899 and 1904, they depict a misty, impressionistic Charing Cross Bridge in London.. 
Conversion of Paul. Author Name: Pieter Bruegel the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_and_Flemish_Renaissance_painting. . Conversion of Paul is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in 1567. It is currently held and exhibited at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna.. Conversion of Paul is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in 1567. It is currently held and exhibited at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna.. 
Yellow and Green Brushstrokes. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Yellow and Green Brushstrokes is a 1966 oil and Magna on canvas pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It is part of the Brushstrokes series of artworks that includes several paintings and sculptures. It is located at the Museum für Moderne Kunst in Frankfurt, Germany. As with all of his Brushstrokes works, it is in part a satirical response to the gestural painting of Abstract Expressionism.. Yellow and Green Brushstrokes is a 1966 oil and Magna on canvas pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It is part of the Brushstrokes series of artworks that includes several paintings and sculptures. It is located at the Museum für Moderne Kunst in Frankfurt, Germany. As with all of his Brushstrokes works, it is in part a satirical response to the gestural painting of Abstract Expressionism.. 
Landscape with Cows and Camel. Author Name: August Macke. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Expressionism. . Landscape with Cows and Camel (German: Landschaft mit Kühen und Kamel) is a 1914 color on canvas painting by German Expressionist painter August Macke. It is drawn on Orphism style. It is now housed at Kunsthaus Zürich, Zürich.. Landscape with Cows and Camel (German: Landschaft mit Kühen und Kamel) is a 1914 color on canvas painting by German Expressionist painter August Macke. It is drawn on Orphism style. It is now housed at Kunsthaus Zürich, Zürich.. 
Near Here. Author Name: Druecke, Paul. . . Near Here is a public art work by American artist Paul Druecke, located on the facade of the Peck School of the Arts Kenilworth Building, part of University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee on the east side of Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The artwork is a bronze plaque with a poetic text created by Donna Stonecipher. It is located at 2155 North Prospect Avenue.. Near Here is a public art work by American artist Paul Druecke, located on the facade of the Peck School of the Arts Kenilworth Building, part of University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee on the east side of Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The artwork is a bronze plaque with a poetic text created by Donna Stonecipher. It is located at 2155 North Prospect Avenue.. 
Sybils. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Sybils, or Sybils receiving instruction from Angels, is a painting by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael. It was painted in 1514, as part of a commission Raphael had received from the Sienese banker Agostino Chigi to decorate the interior of Santa Maria della Pace in Rome.The painting shows four sibyls - Cumaean, Persian, Phrygian and Tiburtine, accompanied by attendant angels. Art historian Michael Hirst notes there is a "striking" parallel between the figures of the Sybils and the practice sketches of Michelangelo.. The Sybils, or Sybils receiving instruction from Angels, is a painting by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael. It was painted in 1514, as part of a commission Raphael had received from the Sienese banker Agostino Chigi to decorate the interior of Santa Maria della Pace in Rome. The painting shows four sibyls - Cumaean, Persian, Phrygian and Tiburtine, accompanied by attendant angels. Art historian Michael Hirst notes there is a "striking" parallel between the figures of the Sybils and the practice sketches of Michelangelo.. 
'X' Intertwining. Author Name: Staab, Roy. . . 'X' Intertwining was a public artwork by American artist Roy Staab, located in Riverside Park in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. 'X' Intertwining is an installation made of approximately five hundred phragmites gathered from the Milwaukee River. It was constructed in August 2009 and was designed to hang directly over a fire pit. Its dimensions were variable because of its irregular shape and slow deterioration but averaged forty by twenty-four feet shortly after construction.. 'X' Intertwining was a public artwork by American artist Roy Staab, located in Riverside Park in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. 'X' Intertwining is an installation made of approximately five hundred phragmites gathered from the Milwaukee River. It was constructed in August 2009 and was designed to hang directly over a fire pit. Its dimensions were variable because of its irregular shape and slow deterioration but averaged forty by twenty-four feet shortly after construction.. 
Abre Serpents. Author Name: Niki de Saint Phalle. . . Arbre Serpents is a sculpture by Niki de Saint Phalle.It showed at the Missouri Botanical Garden.It is part of the National Museum of Women in the Arts, New York Avenue Sculpture Project.. Arbre Serpents is a sculpture by Niki de Saint Phalle. It showed at the Missouri Botanical Garden. It is part of the National Museum of Women in the Arts, New York Avenue Sculpture Project.. 
Prince Balthasar Charles With a Dwarf. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Prince Balthasar Charles With a Dwarf is a 1631 portrait by Diego Velázquez of Balthasar Charles, Prince of Asturias and a court dwarf. It is now in the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston.The prince is shown in the uniform of a captain-general (adapted to his infant state but still including a commander's baton in his right hand, a shoulder sash and a sword hilt in his left hand). The dwarf holds an apple and a rattle, to contrast with the heir to the most powerful monarchy in Europe, who is shown as already in military training and not needing these usual children's attributes. The prince's static posture, in contrast to the dynamism of the dwarf's figure, turning to contemplate the prince, has caused some art historians to think that the painting was originally only of the prince, with the dw. Prince Balthasar Charles With a Dwarf is a 1631 portrait by Diego Velázquez of Balthasar Charles, Prince of Asturias and a court dwarf. It is now in the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston. The prince is shown in the uniform of a captain-general (adapted to his infant state but still including a commander's baton in his right hand, a shoulder sash and a sword hilt in his left hand). The dwarf holds an apple and a rattle, to contrast with the heir to the most powerful monarchy in Europe, who is shown as already in military training and not needing these usual children's attributes. The prince's static posture, in contrast to the dynamism of the dwarf's figure, turning to contemplate the prince, has caused some art historians to think that the painting was originally only of the prince, with the dwarf added later.. 
Hehe Xiexie. Author Name: Zhang Huan. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Contemporary_art. . Hehe Xiexie, or Hehe, Xiexie, is an outdoor 2009–2010 sculpture created by Zhang Huan as part of Art for the World, a collection of twenty monumental sculptures along the Expo Axis organised by Jean-Gabriel Mitterrand, for Expo 2010. It is still installed at Expo Boulevard in Shanghai, China.. Hehe Xiexie, or Hehe, Xiexie, is an outdoor 2009–2010 sculpture created by Zhang Huan as part of Art for the World, a collection of twenty monumental sculptures along the Expo Axis organised by Jean-Gabriel Mitterrand, for Expo 2010. It is still installed at Expo Boulevard in Shanghai, China.. 
Seated Woman, 1957. Author Name: Henry Moore. . Author Movement: Bronze Sculpture, Modernism. . Seated Woman is a bronze sculpture by Henry Moore, catalogued as LH 435. Examples are in the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, Washington D.C., and Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art in Kansas City.. Seated Woman is a bronze sculpture by Henry Moore, catalogued as LH 435. Examples are in the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, Washington D.C., and Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art in Kansas City.. 
Artemisia. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Artemisia Receiving Mausolus' Ashes (also known as Sophonisba Receiving the Poisoned Cup) is a painting by the Dutch master Rembrandt. It is housed in the Museo del Prado of Madrid, Spain. It is signed "REMBRANDT F: 1634".The subject of the picture is still unclear. It portrays a young woman, variously identified as Sophonisba or Artemisia, or a generic queen due to her jewels and rich garments, receiving a cup from a maiden. The cup would contain the ashes of Artemisia's husband, King Mausolus, or, in the case of Sophonisba, the poison which killed her.. Artemisia Receiving Mausolus' Ashes (also known as Sophonisba Receiving the Poisoned Cup) is a painting by the Dutch master Rembrandt. It is housed in the Museo del Prado of Madrid, Spain. It is signed "REMBRANDT F: 1634". The subject of the picture is still unclear. It portrays a young woman, variously identified as Sophonisba or Artemisia, or a generic queen due to her jewels and rich garments, receiving a cup from a maiden. The cup would contain the ashes of Artemisia's husband, King Mausolus, or, in the case of Sophonisba, the poison which killed her. For the woman, Rembrandt probably used his wife Saskia as model.. 
Saint Catherine of Alexandria. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Saint Catherine of Alexandria is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael. In the painting, Catherine of Alexandria is looking upward in ecstasy and leaning on a wheel - an allusion to the breaking wheel (or Catherine wheel) of her martyrdom.This picture was partially used on the cover of The Smashing Pumpkins album Mellon Collie and the Infinite Sadness.. Saint Catherine of Alexandria is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael. In the painting, Catherine of Alexandria is looking upward in ecstasy and leaning on a wheel - an allusion to the breaking wheel (or Catherine wheel) of her martyrdom. It was painted c. 1507, towards the end of Raphael's sojourn in Florence and shows the young artist in a transitional phase. The depiction of religious passion in the painting is still reminiscent of Pietro Perugino. But the graceful contrapposto of Catherine's pose is typical of the influence of Leonardo da Vinci on Raphael, and is believed to be an echo of Leonardo's lost painting Leda and the Swan. This picture was partially used on the cover of The Smashing Pumpkins album Mellon Collie and the Infinite Sadness.. 
Monument to the victory of the people of Slavonia. Author Name: Bakic, Vojin. . . Monument to the revolutionary victory of the people of Slavonia or Monument to the people-hero of Slavonia (Serbo-Croatian: Spomenik revolucionarnoj pobjedi naroda Slavonije, Spomenik narodu-heroju Slavonije) is a former World War II memorial sculpture by Vojin Bakić, that was located in Kamenska, Brestovac, Croatia. It was destroyed in 1992.The Monument was destroyed by the Croatian Army in February 1992, after five days of dynamite mining attempts.. Monument to the revolutionary victory of the people of Slavonia or Monument to the people-hero of Slavonia (Serbo-Croatian: Spomenik revolucionarnoj pobjedi naroda Slavonije, Spomenik narodu-heroju Slavonije) is a former World War II memorial sculpture by Vojin Bakić, that was located in Kamenska, Brestovac, Croatia. It was destroyed in 1992. It was built over a decade, from 1957 to 1968. At the time of its opening it was the largest postmodern sculpture in the world. It was dedicated to the people of Slavonia during World War II and made of stainless steel. The opening ceremony was performed on 9 November 1968 and attended by Yugoslav president Josip Broz Tito. The Monument was destroyed by the Croatian Army in February 1992, after five days of dynamite mining attempts.. 
A Dance to the Music of Time. Author Name: Nicolas Poussin. . Author Movement: Baroque. . A Dance to the Music of Time is a painting by Nicolas Poussin in the Wallace Collection in London. It was painted between 1634 and 1636 as a commission for Giulio Rospigliosi (later Pope Clement IX), who according to Gian Pietro Bellori dictated its detailed iconography. It is best known for giving its name to the novel cycle of the same name, though this title is first seen in a Wallace Collection catalogue of 1913, before which it was given more prosaic titles referring to the Four Seasons. In the 1845 sale it was called La Danse des Saisons, ou l'Image de la vie humaine. It passed from the Rospigliosi family to the Fesch collection in 1806, when it was taken to France for a period, and was bought along with several other paintings by Richard Seymour-Conway, 4th Marquess of Hertford in t. A Dance to the Music of Time is a painting by Nicolas Poussin in the Wallace Collection in London. It was painted between 1634 and 1636 as a commission for Giulio Rospigliosi (later Pope Clement IX), who according to Gian Pietro Bellori dictated its detailed iconography. It is best known for giving its name to the novel cycle of the same name, though this title is first seen in a Wallace Collection catalogue of 1913, before which it was given more prosaic titles referring to the Four Seasons. In the 1845 sale it was called La Danse des Saisons, ou l'Image de la vie humaine. It passed from the Rospigliosi family to the Fesch collection in 1806, when it was taken to France for a period, and was bought along with several other paintings by Richard Seymour-Conway, 4th Marquess of Hertford in the great Fesch sale in Rome in 1845, passing to his son Sir Richard Wallace.. 
Monument of Adam Mickiewicz. Author Name: Goslawski, Jozef. . . The Adam Mickiewicz monument in Gorzów Wielkopolski is a notable Gorzów Wielkopolski statue, located near a cross of Lwów Eaglets Street and Władysław Sikorski Street. The monument was designed by Józef Gosławski. The statue was unveiled 15 December 1957 to commemorate an anniversary of poet's death. The cast was produced by the Mechanical Plants "Gorzów" (Polish: Zakłady Mechaniczne "Gorzów"). Funds for monument came from contributions of local society. In the original version Adam Mickiewicz held a feather in his left and a book in his right hand, but during the work a committee changed an idea and as a result one hand of the poet is 20 cm longer than the other.. The Adam Mickiewicz monument in Gorzów Wielkopolski is a notable Gorzów Wielkopolski statue, located near a cross of Lwów Eaglets Street and Władysław Sikorski Street. The monument was designed by Józef Gosławski. The statue was unveiled 15 December 1957 to commemorate an anniversary of poet's death. The cast was produced by the Mechanical Plants "Gorzów" (Polish: Zakłady Mechaniczne "Gorzów"). Funds for monument came from contributions of local society. In the original version Adam Mickiewicz held a feather in his left and a book in his right hand, but during the work a committee changed an idea and as a result one hand of the poet is 20 cm longer than the other.. 
Apparatus and Hand. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Apparatus and Hand is a 1927 painting by Salvador Dalí.The painting currently resides at the Salvador Dalí Museum in St. Petersburg, Florida. This work is on loan from the collection of Mr. and Mrs. A Reynolds Morse.. Apparatus and Hand is a 1927 painting by Salvador Dalí. The painting currently resides at the Salvador Dalí Museum in St. Petersburg, Florida. This work is on loan from the collection of Mr. and Mrs. A Reynolds Morse.. 
Dark plum Vera Wang dress of Keira Knightley. Author Name: Vera Wang. . . The dark plum Vera Wang dress of Keira Knightley refers to the evening gown worn by British actor Keira Knightley at the 78th Academy Awards on March 5, 2006. The full-length taffeta dress was created by designer Vera Wang and had a single shoulder strap and fishtail skirt. It was accessorised with a Bulgari necklace.. The dark plum Vera Wang dress of Keira Knightley refers to the evening gown worn by British actor Keira Knightley at the 78th Academy Awards on March 5, 2006. The full-length taffeta dress was created by designer Vera Wang and had a single shoulder strap and fishtail skirt. It was accessorised with a Bulgari necklace. In a subsequent poll by British retail chain Debenhams published in The Daily Telegraph, the dress was voted the 6th greatest red carpet gown of all time.Cosmopolitan magazine also cited it as one of the Best Oscar dresses of all time, saying Knightley looked: "super-graceful in this eggplant taffeta gown custom-made by Vera Wang.". 
Origin of the Milky Way. Author Name: Tintoretto. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Origin of the Milky Way is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance master Jacopo Tintoretto, in the National Gallery, London, formerly in the Orleans Collection. It is an oil painting on canvas, and dates from ca.1575–1580.. The Origin of the Milky Way is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance master Jacopo Tintoretto, in the National Gallery, London, formerly in the Orleans Collection. It is an oil painting on canvas, and dates from ca.1575–1580. According to myth, the infant Heracles was brought to Hera by his half-sister Athena, who later played an important role as a goddess of protection. Hera nursed Heracles out of pity, but he suckled so strongly that he caused Hera pain, and she pushed him away. Her milk sprayed across the heavens and there formed the Milky Way. With divine milk, Heracles acquired supernatural powers.. 
Portrait of Cardinal Bibbiena. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Cardinal Bibbiena is a portrait of Cardinal Bernardo Dovizi da Bibbiena (pope Leo X's private secretary) by Raphael, painted around 1516 and now in the Palazzo Pitti in Florence. Its rendering appears more rigid than is usual for Raphael, leading some critics to attribute it to one of his pupils or to feel it is possibly a copy from a lost autograph original.. The Portrait of Cardinal Bibbiena is a portrait of Cardinal Bernardo Dovizi da Bibbiena (pope Leo X's private secretary) by Raphael, painted around 1516 and now in the Palazzo Pitti in Florence. Its rendering appears more rigid than is usual for Raphael, leading some critics to attribute it to one of his pupils or to feel it is possibly a copy from a lost autograph original.. 
Klimt University of Vienna Ceiling Paintings. Author Name: Gustav Klimt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Art_Nouveau. . The Klimt University of Vienna Ceiling Paintings, also known as the Faculty Paintings, were a series of paintings made by Gustav Klimt for the ceiling of the University of Vienna's Great Hall between the years of 1900–1907. In 1894, Klimt was commissioned to paint the ceiling. Upon presenting his paintings, Philosophy, Medicine and Jurisprudence, Klimt came under attack for 'pornography' and 'perverted excess' in the paintings. None of the paintings would go on display in the university. In May 1945 all three paintings were destroyed by retreating SS forces.. The Klimt University of Vienna Ceiling Paintings, also known as the Faculty Paintings, were a series of paintings made by Gustav Klimt for the ceiling of the University of Vienna's Great Hall between the years of 1900–1907. In 1894, Klimt was commissioned to paint the ceiling. Upon presenting his paintings, Philosophy, Medicine and Jurisprudence, Klimt came under attack for 'pornography' and 'perverted excess' in the paintings. None of the paintings would go on display in the university. In May 1945 all three paintings were destroyed by retreating SS forces.. 
Femme au miroir. Author Name: Jean Metzinger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Femme au miroir (en. Woman with a Mirror), Femme à sa toilette or Lady at her Dressing Table, is a painting by the French artist Jean Metzinger. This distilled synthetic form of Cubism exemplifies Metzinger's shift, at the outset of 1916, towards less surface activity, with a strong emphasis on larger, flatter, overlapping abstract planes. The manifest primacy of the underlying geometric configuration, rooted in the abstract, controls nearly every element of the composition. The role of color remains primordial, but is now restrained within sharp delineated boundaries in comparison with earlier works. The work of Juan Gris from the summer of 1916 to late 1918 bares much in common with that of Metzinger's late 1915, early 1916 paintings.. Femme au miroir (en. Woman with a Mirror), Femme à sa toilette or Lady at her Dressing Table, is a painting by the French artist Jean Metzinger. This distilled synthetic form of Cubism exemplifies Metzinger's shift, at the outset of 1916, towards less surface activity, with a strong emphasis on larger, flatter, overlapping abstract planes. The manifest primacy of the underlying geometric configuration, rooted in the abstract, controls nearly every element of the composition. The role of color remains primordial, but is now restrained within sharp delineated boundaries in comparison with earlier works. The work of Juan Gris from the summer of 1916 to late 1918 bares much in common with that of Metzinger's late 1915, early 1916 paintings. Painted during the spring of 1916, Femme au miroir formed part of the collection of Léonce Rosenberg, and was probably exhibited at Galerie de L'Effort Moderne in Paris. In 1918, the painting was shipped to New York City for the occasion of the Léonce Rosenberg collection auction. For the same occasion, Femme au miroir was reproduced in the The Sun, New York, Sunday 28 April 1918. The painting was purchased in New York City (at the auction or afterwards) by the American art collector John Quinn, and formed part of his collection until 1927. The work was subsequently featured at The University of Iowa Museum of Art in the Jean Metzinger in Retrospect exhibition, 1985, and reproduced as a full page color plate in the catalogue.. 
Bedroom at Arles. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Bedroom at Arles is a 1992 oil and Magna on canvas painting by Roy Lichtenstein based on the Bedroom in Arles series of paintings by Vincent van Gogh. It is the only quotation of another painting that Lichtenstein did of an interior. It is located on the Fitzhugh Farm in Maryland in the Robert and Jane Meyerhoff Collection.. Bedroom at Arles is a 1992 oil and Magna on canvas painting by Roy Lichtenstein based on the Bedroom in Arles series of paintings by Vincent van Gogh. It is the only quotation of another painting that Lichtenstein did of an interior. It is located on the Fitzhugh Farm in Maryland in the Robert and Jane Meyerhoff Collection.. 
Ophelia. Author Name: Sir John Everett Millais, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pre-Raphaelite_Brotherhood. . Ophelia is a painting by British artist Sir John Everett Millais, completed between 1851 and 1852. It is held in the Tate Britain in London. It depicts Ophelia, a character from William Shakespeare's play Hamlet, singing before she drowns in a river in Denmark.The work was not widely regarded when first exhibited at the Royal Academy, but has since come to be admired for its beauty and its accurate depiction of a natural landscape. Ophelia has been estimated to have a market value of over £30 million.. Ophelia is a painting by British artist Sir John Everett Millais, completed between 1851 and 1852. It is held in the Tate Britain in London. It depicts Ophelia, a character from William Shakespeare's play Hamlet, singing before she drowns in a river in Denmark. The work was not widely regarded when first exhibited at the Royal Academy, but has since come to be admired for its beauty and its accurate depiction of a natural landscape. Ophelia has been estimated to have a market value of over £30 million.. 
The Donation of Constantine. Author Name: Giulio Romano. . . The Donation of Constantine or Donation of Rome is a painting by assistants of the Italian renaissance artist Raphael. It was most likely painted by Gianfrancesco Penni or Giulio Romano, somewhere between 1520 and 1524. After the master's death in 1520, they worked together with other members of Raphael's workshop to finish the commission to decorate with frescoes the rooms that are now known as the Stanze di Raffaello, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. The Donation of Constantine is located in the Sala di Costantino ("Hall of Constantine"). It was inspired by the famous forged documents that supposedly granted the Popes sovereignty over Rome's territorial dominions.. The Donation of Constantine or Donation of Rome is a painting by assistants of the Italian renaissance artist Raphael. It was most likely painted by Gianfrancesco Penni or Giulio Romano, somewhere between 1520 and 1524. After the master's death in 1520, they worked together with other members of Raphael's workshop to finish the commission to decorate with frescoes the rooms that are now known as the Stanze di Raffaello, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. The Donation of Constantine is located in the Sala di Costantino ("Hall of Constantine"). It was inspired by the famous forged documents that supposedly granted the Popes sovereignty over Rome's territorial dominions. The painting depicts an apocryphal historical event: Emperor Constantine kneels before Pope Sylvester I and offers the Pope and his successors control of the city of Rome and the entire Western Roman Empire. The depiction of Sylvester is modeled after Pope Clement VII who became pope in 1523. The painting (anachronistically) shows the interior of the original Saint Peter's Basilica, which was in the process of being rebuilt at the time the painting was made. In the center background of the painting is the altar with its twisted, Solomonic columns. These columns were a gift from Constantine who supposedly took them from the ruined Jewish temple.. 
The Immaculate Conception. Author Name: Giovanni Battista Tiepolo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Rococo. . The Immaculate Conception is a painting by Italian painter Giovanni Battista Tiepolo (1696–1770). It depicts the Virgin Mary, surrounded by angels and crowned with the circle of stars. She is shown trampling a snake, representing her victory over the devil. The lilies and the rose are references to hortus conclusus ("enclosed garden"), and symbolize Mary's love, virginity and purity.. The Immaculate Conception is a painting by Italian painter Giovanni Battista Tiepolo (1696–1770). It depicts the Virgin Mary, surrounded by angels and crowned with the circle of stars. She is shown trampling a snake, representing her victory over the devil. The lilies and the rose are references to hortus conclusus ("enclosed garden"), and symbolize Mary's love, virginity and purity. The painting was one of seven altarpieces commissioned in March 1767 from Tiepolo by King Charles III of Spain for the Church of Saint Pascual in Aranjuez, then under construction. This was originally an Alcantarine (Franciscan) monastery that was later assigned to the Conceptionist nuns. Both orders promoted the cult of the Immaculate Conception. The painting is now in the Prado Museum, Madrid.. 
Hope. Author Name: George Frederic Watts. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Symbolism_(arts). . Hope is a Symbolist oil painting by George Frederic Watts, two versions of which were completed in 1886. The painting was intended to form part of a series of allegorical paintings by Watts entitled the "House of Life". In 2016 the version owned by Tate Britain was on loan to the Watts Gallery in Surrey, and on display there.. Hope is a Symbolist oil painting by George Frederic Watts, two versions of which were completed in 1886. The painting was intended to form part of a series of allegorical paintings by Watts entitled the "House of Life". In 2016 the version owned by Tate Britain was on loan to the Watts Gallery in Surrey, and on display there.. 
Moses Leaving to Egypt. Author Name: Pietro Perugino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Moses Leaving to Egypt is a fresco by the Italian Renaissance painter Pietro Perugino and his workshop, executed around 1482 and located in the Sistine Chapel, Rome.. Moses Leaving to Egypt is a fresco by the Italian Renaissance painter Pietro Perugino and his workshop, executed around 1482 and located in the Sistine Chapel, Rome.. 
Shift. Author Name: Richard Serra. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Process_art. . Shift is a large outdoor sculpture by American artist Richard Serra, located in King City, Ontario, Canada about 50 kilometers north of Toronto. The work was commissioned in 1970 by art collector Roger Davidson and installed on his family property. Shift consists of six large concrete forms, each 20 centimetres thick and 1.5 metres high, zigzagging over about four hectares of rolling countryside. In 1990 the Township of King voted to designate Shift and the surrounding land as a protected cultural landscape under the Ontario Heritage Act. The property is now owned by a Toronto-based developer who announced in 2010 that they appeal the decision of the Ontario Conservation Review board with plans to develop the property for housing, necessitating the removal of Shift. In 2013 the Township of. Shift is a large outdoor sculpture by American artist Richard Serra, located in King City, Ontario, Canada about 50 kilometers north of Toronto. The work was commissioned in 1970 by art collector Roger Davidson and installed on his family property. Shift consists of six large concrete forms, each 20 centimetres thick and 1.5 metres high, zigzagging over about four hectares of rolling countryside. In 1990 the Township of King voted to designate Shift and the surrounding land as a protected cultural landscape under the Ontario Heritage Act. The property is now owned by a Toronto-based developer who announced in 2010 that they appeal the decision of the Ontario Conservation Review board with plans to develop the property for housing, necessitating the removal of Shift. In 2013 the Township of King voted to prepare a bylaw to designate Shift as protected under the Ontario Heritage Act, preventing its destruction or alteration.. 
Les Chimères. Author Name: Gustave Moreau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Symbolism_(arts). . Les Chimères or “The Chimaeras” is an unfinished painting by the French Symbolist painter Gustave Moreau (6 April 1826 – 18 April 1898) executed in 1884. It depicts a large forest scene wherein various nude women are associated with sundry figures from classical and medieval mythology –not only the titular chimeras, but also centaurs, winged creatures, fawns, minotaurs, etc. The painting is a philosophical meditation on what Moreau saw as the elemental nature of Woman, depicting the internal yearnings and dreams of women (des chimères being a French idiom indicating unrealistic dreams) through complex mythological symbolism. Moreau abandoned the work shortly after his mother’s death to work on the darker polyptych La Vie de l'Humanité, considered one of his masterpieces.. Les Chimères or “The Chimaeras” is an unfinished painting by the French Symbolist painter Gustave Moreau (6 April 1826 – 18 April 1898) executed in 1884. It depicts a large forest scene wherein various nude women are associated with sundry figures from classical and medieval mythology –not only the titular chimeras, but also centaurs, winged creatures, fawns, minotaurs, etc. The painting is a philosophical meditation on what Moreau saw as the elemental nature of Woman, depicting the internal yearnings and dreams of women (des chimères being a French idiom indicating unrealistic dreams) through complex mythological symbolism. Moreau abandoned the work shortly after his mother’s death to work on the darker polyptych La Vie de l'Humanité, considered one of his masterpieces.. 
Balbi Holy Conversation. Author Name: Titian. . . Balbi Holy Conversation (Italian: Sacra conversazione, also known as Titian Madonna and Child with Sts Catherine and Dominic and a Donor) is an oil painting by the Italian late Renaissance painter Titian, dated to around 1513, and now held at the Fondazione Magnani-Rocca in Traversetolo, near Parma, northern Italy.The work was originally part of marquess Balbi's collection at Genoa, hence the name. It is a work from the artist's youth, set in an open landscape, with some Giorgione influences but already some personal elements, such as the asymmetrical composition and the full figures.. Balbi Holy Conversation (Italian: Sacra conversazione, also known as Titian Madonna and Child with Sts Catherine and Dominic and a Donor) is an oil painting by the Italian late Renaissance painter Titian, dated to around 1513, and now held at the Fondazione Magnani-Rocca in Traversetolo, near Parma, northern Italy. The work was originally part of marquess Balbi's collection at Genoa, hence the name. It is a work from the artist's youth, set in an open landscape, with some Giorgione influences but already some personal elements, such as the asymmetrical composition and the full figures.. 
Life Electric. Author Name: Daniel Libeskind. . . Life Electric (also known as The Life Electric) is a contemporary sculpture, dedicated to the physicist Alessandro Volta (1745–1827). Completed in 2015 it is located in Como, Italy.Life Electric was designed by Daniel Libeskind, and was a gift to Como, the city where the architect located his “Summer Session” school of architecture, in 1988.The sculpture was commissioned by the non profit association “Gli amici di Como”.The design of the fountain illustrates the evolution of modern architecture that took place over the period from 1920s to modern days, with the emergence of Rationalism.. Life Electric (also known as The Life Electric) is a contemporary sculpture, dedicated to the physicist Alessandro Volta (1745–1827). Completed in 2015 it is located in Como, Italy.Life Electric was designed by Daniel Libeskind, and was a gift to Como, the city where the architect located his “Summer Session” school of architecture, in 1988.The sculpture was commissioned by the non profit association “Gli amici di Como”.The design of the fountain illustrates the evolution of modern architecture that took place over the period from 1920s to modern days, with the emergence of Rationalism. Libeskind’s creation has carried on the tradition of contemporary art in Como, and raised its profile.. 
Anthony Wayne. Author Name: Gregory, Johnl. . . Anthony Wayne is a gilded bronze equestrian sculpture of Anthony Wayne, by John Gregory at the Philadelphia Museum of Art. It is located at 26th Street and the Benjamin Franklin Parkway.It was dedicated on September 17, 1937.1937.. Anthony Wayne is a gilded bronze equestrian sculpture of Anthony Wayne, by John Gregory at the Philadelphia Museum of Art. It is located at 26th Street and the Benjamin Franklin Parkway.It was dedicated on September 17, 1937. The inscription reads:(Base, plaques on both north and south sides:) Sons of the RevolutionExegi Monumentum Aere Perennius 1776-1883 (Base, north side above plaque, in raised letters:) Anthony Wayne1745-1796 The inscription at the foot of base reads:Anthony WayneA memorial of his valoura tribute to his achievementsin the War of IndependenceThe Pennsylvania SocietySons of the RevolutionHere inscribe his namein honor 1937.. 
Thomas Jefferson. Author Name: Karl Bitter. . . Thomas Jefferson is an outdoor 1915 bronze sculpture of Thomas Jefferson by Karl Bitter, located outside Jefferson High School in north Portland, Oregon, United States. The statue was dedicated in June 1915.. Thomas Jefferson is an outdoor 1915 bronze sculpture of Thomas Jefferson by Karl Bitter, located outside Jefferson High School in north Portland, Oregon, United States. The statue was dedicated in June 1915.. 
Eagle. Author Name: Alexander "Sandy" Calder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstraction_(art). . Eagle is an abstract sculpture by Alexander Calder.It is located at the Olympic Sculpture Park, Seattle.. Eagle is an abstract sculpture by Alexander Calder. It is located at the Olympic Sculpture Park, Seattle.. 
The Nostalgia of the Infinite. Author Name: Giorgio de Chirico. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Metaphysical_art. . The Nostalgia of the Infinite is a painting by the Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio de Chirico.The subject of the painting is a large tower. The scene is struck by low, angular evening light. In the foreground below the tower are two small shadowy figures resembling those in future works by Salvador Dalí. This painting is the most famous example of the tower theme which appears in several of de Chirico’s works.. The Nostalgia of the Infinite is a painting by the Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio de Chirico. The subject of the painting is a large tower. The scene is struck by low, angular evening light. In the foreground below the tower are two small shadowy figures resembling those in future works by Salvador Dalí. This painting is the most famous example of the tower theme which appears in several of de Chirico’s works. Although the painting is dated 1911, this date is generally held in question. It has been speculated by the Museum of Modern Art in New York that it was created from 1912 to 1913 while the Annenberg School for Communication suggests 1913–14. According to art historian Robert Hughes, the painting draws inspiration from the Mole Antonelliana in Turin. This painting, amongst other works by Giorgio de Chirico, influenced the painting by Fumito Ueda for the front cover of the video game Ico used in the Japanese and European versions of the game.. 
The Artist in His Museum. Author Name: Charles Willson Peale. . . The Artist in His Museum is an 1822 self-portrait by the American painter Charles Willson Peale (1741–1827). It depicts the 81-year-old artist posed in Peale's Museum, then occupying the second floor of Independence Hall in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The nearly life-size painting is in the collection of the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts.. The Artist in His Museum is an 1822 self-portrait by the American painter Charles Willson Peale (1741–1827). It depicts the 81-year-old artist posed in Peale's Museum, then occupying the second floor of Independence Hall in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The nearly life-size painting is in the collection of the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts.. 
In a corner on the Macintyre. Author Name: Tom Roberts. . . In a corner on the Macintyre (Thunderbolt in an encounter with police at Paradise Creek) is a 1895 painting by the Australian artist Tom Roberts. The painting is thought to depict the bushranger Captain Thunderbolt in a shootout with police.Roberts painted the picture while staying at Newstead, a station near Inverell, New South Wales, where he also painted his other significant bushranging work Bailed up.The painting was acquired by the National Gallery of Australia in 1971.. In a corner on the Macintyre (Thunderbolt in an encounter with police at Paradise Creek) is a 1895 painting by the Australian artist Tom Roberts. The painting is thought to depict the bushranger Captain Thunderbolt in a shootout with police. Roberts painted the picture while staying at Newstead, a station near Inverell, New South Wales, where he also painted his other significant bushranging work Bailed up. The painting was acquired by the National Gallery of Australia in 1971.. 
Fishing in Spring, the Pont de Clichy. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Seine (paintings) is the subject and location of paintings that Vincent van Gogh made in 1886. The Seine has been an integral part of Parisian life for centuries for commerce, travel and entertainment. Here Van Gogh primarily captures the respite and relief from city life found in nature.A few of the paintings were made in Paris and the rest in the northwestern suburbs of Paris in Clichy and Asnières. Through these works the audience can see a transition in Van Gogh's work from one of dark colors and serious themes to more joyous use of color and light and choice of themes.. Seine (paintings) is the subject and location of paintings that Vincent van Gogh made in 1886. The Seine has been an integral part of Parisian life for centuries for commerce, travel and entertainment. Here Van Gogh primarily captures the respite and relief from city life found in nature. A few of the paintings were made in Paris and the rest in the northwestern suburbs of Paris in Clichy and Asnières. Through these works the audience can see a transition in Van Gogh's work from one of dark colors and serious themes to more joyous use of color and light and choice of themes. In the Netherlands Van Gogh was influenced by great Dutch masters as well as cousin-in-law Anton Mauve a Dutch realist painter who was a leading member of the Hague School. In Paris Van Gogh was exposed to and influenced by Impressionism, Symbolism, Pointillism, and Japanese woodblock print genres which were overtime integrated into his works. The spring of 1887 seemed to trigger an awakening within Van Gogh where he experimented with the genres to develop his personal style.. 
Sea Form. Author Name: Dame Barbara Hepworth. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_art. . Sea Form (Atlantic) is a public art work by English artist Barbara Hepworth located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The bronze abstract has textured surfaces and several round openings with patina; it is installed on the lawn. Other editions of the sculpture are on display at the Dallas Museum of Art and City of Norwich.. Sea Form (Atlantic) is a public art work by English artist Barbara Hepworth located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The bronze abstract has textured surfaces and several round openings with patina; it is installed on the lawn. Other editions of the sculpture are on display at the Dallas Museum of Art and City of Norwich.. 
The Prophet Joel. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Prophet Joel is one of the seven Old Testament prophets painted by the Italian High Renaissance master Michelangelo (c. 1508–1512) on the Sistine Chapel ceiling. The Sistine Chapel is in Vatican Palace, in the Vatican City.. The Prophet Joel is one of the seven Old Testament prophets painted by the Italian High Renaissance master Michelangelo (c. 1508–1512) on the Sistine Chapel ceiling. The Sistine Chapel is in Vatican Palace, in the Vatican City. This particular fresco imagines the person of Joel, a prophet from the Hebrew Bible, whose teachings appear in the Book of Joel. Critics have often commented on the rhythmic posture of the figure, and the artist's use of several inner horizontal lines for the clothing, which stands out when compared to some of the other frescoes. But the most engaging part of the fresco is the face of the central figure, which appears to reveal wisdom, disdain and intense focus all at once; the open scroll in his hands only enhancing this sense of wisdom.. 
Les Grandes Baigneuses. Author Name: Pierre-Auguste Renoir. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Les Grandes Baigneuses, or The Large Bathers, is a painting by Auguste Renoir made between 1884 and 1887. The painting is in the Philadelphia Museum of Art, in Philadelphia.The painting depicts a scene of nude women bathing. In the foreground, two women are seated beside the water, and a third is standing in the water near them. In the background, two others are bathing. The one standing in the water in the foreground appears to be about to splash one of the women seated on the shore with water. That woman leans back to avoid the expected splash of water.. Les Grandes Baigneuses, or The Large Bathers, is a painting by Auguste Renoir made between 1884 and 1887. The painting is in the Philadelphia Museum of Art, in Philadelphia. The painting depicts a scene of nude women bathing. In the foreground, two women are seated beside the water, and a third is standing in the water near them. In the background, two others are bathing. The one standing in the water in the foreground appears to be about to splash one of the women seated on the shore with water. That woman leans back to avoid the expected splash of water. The figures have a sculptural quality, while the landscape behind them shimmers with impressionistic light. With this new style, Renoir's intention was to reconcile the modern forms of painting with the painting traditions of the 17th and 18th centuries, particularly those of Ingres and Rafael. Renoir also admired Rubens and Titian's works, and he tried to find a compromise between the styles of these old masters and the new impressionist style.. 
The Subsiding of the Waters of the Deluge. Author Name: Thomas Cole. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Hudson_River_School. . The Subsiding of the Waters of the Deluge is an 1829 painting by English-born American artist Thomas Cole depicting the aftermath of the Great Flood.The painting is an 90.8 x 121.4 cm oil on canvas. It is on display at the Smithsonian American Art Museum in Washington, D.C... The Subsiding of the Waters of the Deluge is an 1829 painting by English-born American artist Thomas Cole depicting the aftermath of the Great Flood. The painting is an 90.8 x 121.4 cm oil on canvas. It is on display at the Smithsonian American Art Museum in Washington, D.C... 
Portrait of Bia de' Medici. Author Name: Bronzino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . The Portrait of Bia de' Medici is an oil-tempera on wood painting by Agnolo Bronzino, dating to around 1542 and now in the Uffizi in Florence. For a long time it was displayed in the Tribuna at the heart of the museum, but since 2012 it has been moved to the 'sale rosse' of the Nuovi Uffizi.. The Portrait of Bia de' Medici is an oil-tempera on wood painting by Agnolo Bronzino, dating to around 1542 and now in the Uffizi in Florence. For a long time it was displayed in the Tribuna at the heart of the museum, but since 2012 it has been moved to the 'sale rosse' of the Nuovi Uffizi.. 
Self-Portrait with Two Circles. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Self-Portrait with Two Circles is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch artist Rembrandt, painted c. 1659–60.In it, he is seen at work, holding his palette, brushes, and maulstick. The painting is notable for its monumentality and for an enigmatic background consisting of a shallow space with the fragments of two circles. It is the most ambitious self-portrait in which he is depicted at work and is considered a masterpiece of his last years.. Self-Portrait with Two Circles is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch artist Rembrandt, painted c. 1659–60. In it, he is seen at work, holding his palette, brushes, and maulstick. The painting is notable for its monumentality and for an enigmatic background consisting of a shallow space with the fragments of two circles. It is the most ambitious self-portrait in which he is depicted at work and is considered a masterpiece of his last years.. 
Portrait of a Man. Author Name: Antonello da Messina. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Portrait of a Man is a painting by Italian Renaissance artist Antonello da Messina, housed in the Turin City Museum of Ancient Art.. Portrait of a Man is a painting by Italian Renaissance artist Antonello da Messina, housed in the Turin City Museum of Ancient Art.. 
The Feast of the Gods. Author Name: Giovanni Bellini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Feast of the Gods (Italian: Il festino degli dei) is an oil painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini, with substantial additions to the landscape in stages by Dosso Dossi and Titian, who added all the landscape to the left and centre. It is one of the few mythological pictures by the Venetian artist. Completed in 1514, it was his last major work. It is now in the National Gallery of Art in Washington D.C., which calls it "one of the greatest Renaissance paintings in the United States".. The Feast of the Gods (Italian: Il festino degli dei) is an oil painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini, with substantial additions to the landscape in stages by Dosso Dossi and Titian, who added all the landscape to the left and centre. It is one of the few mythological pictures by the Venetian artist. Completed in 1514, it was his last major work. It is now in the National Gallery of Art in Washington D.C., which calls it "one of the greatest Renaissance paintings in the United States". The painting is the first major depiction of the subject of the "Feast of the Gods" in Renaissance art, which was to remain in currency until the end of Northern Mannerism over a century later. It has several similarities to another, much less sophisticated, treatment of the 1490s by the Florentine artist Bartolomeo di Giovanni, now in the Louvre.. 
Hecate, or The Night of Enitharmon's Joy. Author Name: William Blake. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . The Night of Enitharmon's Joy, often referred as The Triple Hecate or simply Hecate, is a 1795 work of art by the English artist and poet William Blake which depicts Enitharmon, a female character in his mythology, or Hecate, a chthonic Greco-Roman goddess of magic and the underworld. The work presents a nightmarish scene with fantastic creatures.The Triple Hecate is painted with deep tones and bold masses. Blake employed a new technique whose "effect is darker and richer than [his] illuminated books". One scholar interprets his colour print Hecate thus:. The Night of Enitharmon's Joy, often referred as The Triple Hecate or simply Hecate, is a 1795 work of art by the English artist and poet William Blake which depicts Enitharmon, a female character in his mythology, or Hecate, a chthonic Greco-Roman goddess of magic and the underworld. The work presents a nightmarish scene with fantastic creatures. The Triple Hecate is painted with deep tones and bold masses. Blake employed a new technique whose "effect is darker and richer than [his] illuminated books". One scholar interprets his colour print Hecate thus: Blake often drew on Michelangelo to create and compose his epic images, including Hecate's, according to a consensus of critics. "Blake is indebted to Michelangelo for many of his giant forms". Michelangelo contributed many "characters to Blake's gallery of mythic persons and heroes". Regarding the Hecate colour print, a suggested trail may be traced. From Michelangelo, Blake copied his early sketch entitled The Reposing Traveller, which then evolved into a figure for his work (1795-1797) regarding Night Thoughts, and also into the similarly posed figure of Hecate here. The image may also allude to the Three Fates — the Moirai of Greek mythology and the Parcae of Roman. Notwithstanding these allusions, critics point out that a contemporary trigger for Blake's inspiration probably was the return popularity of Shakespeare's play Macbeth. As Hecate listens offstage, the three witches, in arranging Macbeth's doom, chant: "Double, double, toil and trouble; Fire burn and cauldron bubble". Each witch in turn adds her verses, the second's being: Hence, bat, owl, snake or frog would be appropriate to The Triple Hecate. Blake printed his illuminated Europe a Prophecy in 1794. The bulk of the book, according to one scholar, "is devoted to the night of Enitharmon's joy, when she establishes her Woman's World with its false religion of chastity and vengeance: a religion of eighteen hundred years, which is the error of official Christianity." In other words, it is said to represent a Feminine Will over a patriarchal Christianity. Blake's character is described as "the Moon of love to Los's Sun", hence its relationship with Hecate, one of the Moon Goddesses alongside Diana/Artemis and Selene. She is also invoked in Hamlet, in the play within the play method, by the (actor) Lucianus: "With Hecate's ban thrice blasted, thrice infected, Thy natural magic and dire property [...]" but in Europe: a Prophecy Enitharmon's night is presented in this way: There are other literary sources for the myth of Hecate, such as Metamorphoses by Ovid, VI 140, VII 74, 94, 174, 177, 194, 241, XIV 44, 405, and Blake himself: "The Gods all Serve her at her will; so great her Power is, like fabled Hecate, she doth bind them to her law." (Blake, Then She bore Pale desire…). But not only in his poetry The Triple Hecate makes a connection: it is seen as an opposition to his painting Pity, circa 1795, where the piety provides a "possibility of salvation" in the fallen world. Here, both witchcraft and curse, associated with Hecate, are factors to human perdition. Geoffrey Keynes wrote about it: The image was created in a time in which Shakespeare's Macbeth had a revival, being performed nine times. Like other works by Blake, such as The Ghost of a Flea, the picture is part of W. Graham Robertson's private collection and was presented to the Tate Gallery by himself in 1939. It is considered to be one of the most brilliant and significant pictures of William Blake.. 
The Blind Leading the Blind. Author Name: Pieter Bruegel the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_and_Flemish_Renaissance_painting. . The Blind Leading the Blind, Blind, or The Parable of the Blind (Dutch: De parabel der blinden) is a painting by the Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, completed in 1568. Executed in distemper on linen canvas, it measures 86 cm × 154 cm (34 in × 61 in). It depicts the Biblical parable of the blind leading the blind from Matthew 15:14, and is held in the collection of the Museo di Capodimonte in Naples, Italy.. The Blind Leading the Blind, Blind, or The Parable of the Blind (Dutch: De parabel der blinden) is a painting by the Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, completed in 1568. Executed in distemper on linen canvas, it measures 86 cm × 154 cm (34 in × 61 in). It depicts the Biblical parable of the blind leading the blind from Matthew 15:14, and is held in the collection of the Museo di Capodimonte in Naples, Italy. The painting reflects Bruegel's mastery of observation. Each figure has a different eye affliction, including corneal leukoma, atrophy of globe and removed eyes. The men hold their heads aloft to make better use of their other senses. The diagonal composition reinforces the off-kilter motion of the six figures falling in progression. It is considered a masterwork for its accurate detail and composition. Copies include a larger version by Bruegel's son Pieter Brueghel the Younger, and the work has inspired literature such as poetry by Charles Baudelaire and William Carlos Williams, and a novel by Gert Hofmann. It was painted the year before Bruegel's death, and has a bitter, sorrowful tone. This may be related to the establishment of the Council of Troubles in 1567 by the government of the Spanish Netherlands. The council ordered mass arrests and executions to enforce Spanish rule and suppress Protestantism. The placement of Sint-Anna Church of the village Sint-Anna-Pede has led to both pro- and anti-Catholic interpretations, though it is not clear that the painting was meant as a political statement.. 
The navigator's hope 1. Author Name: Joan Miró. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . The navigator's hope is a series of paintings made by Joan Miró between 1968 and 1973, half of which now belong to the permanent collection of the Fundació Joan Miró in Barcelona, thanks to a donation by Pilar Juncosa. The rest of the series are preserved in various private collections.. The navigator's hope is a series of paintings made by Joan Miró between 1968 and 1973, half of which now belong to the permanent collection of the Fundació Joan Miró in Barcelona, thanks to a donation by Pilar Juncosa. The rest of the series are preserved in various private collections.. 
Holy Trinity. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Holy Trinity or Pala delle Convertite is an altarpiece by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli, dating to c. 1491–1493. It is housed in Courtauld Institute Galleries of London.It was originally commissioned by the Arte dei Medici e degli Speziali (guild of the Doctors and Pharmacists) for the church of Santa Elisabetta delle Convertite in Florence, a church/monastery housing former prostitutes or fallen women, who had converted from the licentious life to one of honesty, and whose patron saint was Mary Magdalene. The Holy Trinity or Pala delle Convertite is an altarpiece by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli, dating to c. 1491–1493. It is housed in Courtauld Institute Galleries of London. It was originally commissioned by the Arte dei Medici e degli Speziali (guild of the Doctors and Pharmacists) for the church of Santa Elisabetta delle Convertite in Florence, a church/monastery housing former prostitutes or fallen women, who had converted from the licentious life to one of honesty, and whose patron saint was Mary Magdalene The picture shows the Trinity (Jesus Crucified, God and the Holy Spirit's Dove) within an almond with seraphim. In the background is a blue sky within two rocky spurs, in front of which are Mary Magdalene, taken in an intense praying posture, and St. John the Baptist, patron saint of Florence, who, as usual in the pictures of the period, is pointing to the center of the composition. The figure of Magdalene resembles the contemporary "Magdalene Penitent" by Donatello (1453–1455) and that by Desiderio da Settignano (c. 1455) in the church of Santa Trinita. In the lower part, in a smaller scale, are the Archangel Raphael with Tobias, who is holding the fish that, in the Biblical tale, he had been ordered by angel to capture in order to save his father. Raphael was the patron saint of the Arte dei Medici e degli Speziali.. 
The Kiss. Author Name: Francesco Hayez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . Il bacio ([il ˈbaːtʃo]; The Kiss) is an 1859 painting by the Italian artist Francesco Hayez. It is possibly his best known work. This painting conveys the main features of Italian Romanticism and has come to represent the spirit of the Risorgimento. It was commissioned by Alfonso Maria Visconti di Saliceto, who donated to the Pinacoteca di Brera after his death.. Il bacio ([il ˈbaːtʃo]; The Kiss) is an 1859 painting by the Italian artist Francesco Hayez. It is possibly his best known work. This painting conveys the main features of Italian Romanticism and has come to represent the spirit of the Risorgimento. It was commissioned by Alfonso Maria Visconti di Saliceto, who donated to the Pinacoteca di Brera after his death.. 
Madonna with the Cherubim. Author Name: Andrea Mantegna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Madonna with the Cherubim is a c.1485 painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Andrea Mantegna.. The Madonna with the Cherubim is a c.1485 painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Andrea Mantegna.. 
Delta Solar. Author Name: Alejandro Otero. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Geometric_abstraction. . Delta Solar is a public artwork by Venezuelan sculptor Alejandro Otero located outside of the National Air and Space Museum in Washington, DC, United States. Delta Solar is meant to pay homage to modern technology and the Inca sun cult.. Delta Solar is a public artwork by Venezuelan sculptor Alejandro Otero located outside of the National Air and Space Museum in Washington, DC, United States. Delta Solar is meant to pay homage to modern technology and the Inca sun cult.. 
Statue of Pope Clement X. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Statue of Pope Clement X is one of the final sculptural works executed by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. It depicts Pope Clement X in the act of benediction, and is housed in the Galleria Nazionale d'Arte Antica in the Palazzo Barberini, Rome.. The Statue of Pope Clement X is one of the final sculptural works executed by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. It depicts Pope Clement X in the act of benediction, and is housed in the Galleria Nazionale d'Arte Antica in the Palazzo Barberini, Rome.. 
Melencolia I. Author Name: Albrecht Dürer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Melencolia I is a 1514 engraving by the German Renaissance master Albrecht Dürer. It is an allegorical composition which has been the subject of many interpretations. One of the most famous old master prints, it has sometimes been regarded as forming one of a conscious group of Meisterstiche ("master prints") with his Knight, Death and the Devil (1513) and Saint Jerome in his Study (1514).The engraving measures 24 × 18.8cm.. Melencolia I is a 1514 engraving by the German Renaissance master Albrecht Dürer. It is an allegorical composition which has been the subject of many interpretations. One of the most famous old master prints, it has sometimes been regarded as forming one of a conscious group of Meisterstiche ("master prints") with his Knight, Death and the Devil (1513) and Saint Jerome in his Study (1514). The engraving measures 24 × 18.8cm.. 
The Spirit of Eternal Repose. Author Name: Auguste Rodin. . . The Spirit of Eternal Repose (French: Le génie du repos éternel) is an outdoor 1898–1899 bronze sculpture by French artist Auguste Rodin, installed at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston's Lillie and Hugh Roy Cullen Sculpture Garden, in the U.S. state of Texas.. The Spirit of Eternal Repose (French: Le génie du repos éternel) is an outdoor 1898–1899 bronze sculpture by French artist Auguste Rodin, installed at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston's Lillie and Hugh Roy Cullen Sculpture Garden, in the U.S. state of Texas.. 
Russian Schoolroom. Author Name: Norman Rockwell. . . Russian Schoolroom (1967) — also known as The Russian Classroom and Russian Schoolchildren — is an oil on canvas painting created by American illustrator Norman Rockwell (1894–1978) and commissioned by Look magazine. It depicts Russian schoolchildren in a classroom with a bust of Soviet leader Vladimir Lenin.. Russian Schoolroom (1967) — also known as The Russian Classroom and Russian Schoolchildren — is an oil on canvas painting created by American illustrator Norman Rockwell (1894–1978) and commissioned by Look magazine. It depicts Russian schoolchildren in a classroom with a bust of Soviet leader Vladimir Lenin.. 
They Waz Nice White Folks While They Lasted. Author Name: Kara Walker. . . They Waz Nice White Folks While They Lasted (Sez One Gal to Another) is a 2001 installation artwork by American artist Kara Walker, located at the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States of America. It consists of paper cutouts forming a strange tableau with the projected image of a steamboat.. They Waz Nice White Folks While They Lasted (Sez One Gal to Another) is a 2001 installation artwork by American artist Kara Walker, located at the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States of America. It consists of paper cutouts forming a strange tableau with the projected image of a steamboat.. 
Sigismunda mourning over the Heart of Guiscardo. Author Name: William  Hogarth. . . Sigismunda mourning over the Heart of Guiscardo, fully titled Sigismunda mourning over the Heart of Guiscardo, her murder'd Husband, is an oil painting by British artist William Hogarth. Finished in 1759, it was the principal piece of the eight works he displayed in an exhibition in 1761. It was the final and most ambitious of his attempts to secure for himself a reputation as a genre painter. It depicts a dramatic moment in one of the novelle in Boccaccio's Decameron. While Hogarth had expected this work to be acclaimed as a masterpiece of dramatic painting, the work was met with criticism and ridicule. In the catalogue of the exhibition of Hogarth's works at the Tate Gallery in 2007, the criticism was described as "some of the most damning critical opprobrium the artist ever suffered".. Sigismunda mourning over the Heart of Guiscardo, fully titled Sigismunda mourning over the Heart of Guiscardo, her murder'd Husband, is an oil painting by British artist William Hogarth. Finished in 1759, it was the principal piece of the eight works he displayed in an exhibition in 1761. It was the final and most ambitious of his attempts to secure for himself a reputation as a genre painter. It depicts a dramatic moment in one of the novelle in Boccaccio's Decameron. While Hogarth had expected this work to be acclaimed as a masterpiece of dramatic painting, the work was met with criticism and ridicule. In the catalogue of the exhibition of Hogarth's works at the Tate Gallery in 2007, the criticism was described as "some of the most damning critical opprobrium the artist ever suffered".. 
Forest. Author Name: Paul Cézanne. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Forest is a painting (c. 1902–1904) by French painter Paul Cézanne. An oil on canvas, it represents a wooded area close to Aix-en-Provence. It is currently in the collection of the National Gallery of Canada.. Forest is a painting (c. 1902–1904) by French painter Paul Cézanne. An oil on canvas, it represents a wooded area close to Aix-en-Provence. It is currently in the collection of the National Gallery of Canada.. 
Roger freeing Angelica. Author Name: Arnold Böcklin. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Symbolism_(arts). . Roger freeing Angelica is an oil painting by Swiss symbolist painter Arnold Böcklin, from 1873. The painting illustrates a scene from Ariosto's epic Orlando Furioso, in which the Muslim knight Roger (Italian: Ruggieri) saves the pagan princess Angelica from a sea monster. The motif is closely related to the mythological theme of Perseus saving Andromeda.. Roger freeing Angelica is an oil painting by Swiss symbolist painter Arnold Böcklin, from 1873. The painting illustrates a scene from Ariosto's epic Orlando Furioso, in which the Muslim knight Roger (Italian: Ruggieri) saves the pagan princess Angelica from a sea monster. The motif is closely related to the mythological theme of Perseus saving Andromeda.. 
Anxiety. Author Name: Edvard Munch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Expressionism. . Anxiety (Norwegian: Angst) is an oil-on-canvas painting created by the expressionist artist Edvard Munch in 1894. It's currently housed in Munch Museum in Oslo, Norway. Many art critics feel that Anxiety is closely related to Munch’s more famous piece, The Scream.[who?] The faces show despair and the dark colors show a depressed state. Many critics also believe it’s meant to show heartbreak and sorrow, which are common emotions all people feel.. Anxiety (Norwegian: Angst) is an oil-on-canvas painting created by the expressionist artist Edvard Munch in 1894. It's currently housed in Munch Museum in Oslo, Norway. Many art critics feel that Anxiety is closely related to Munch’s more famous piece, The Scream.[who?] The faces show despair and the dark colors show a depressed state. Many critics also believe it’s meant to show heartbreak and sorrow, which are common emotions all people feel.. 
Madonna with the Blue Diadem. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Madonna with the Blue Diadem is a painting by Raphael and his pupil Gianfrancesco Penni, and was most likely painted in Rome around 1512, now at the Louvre.In the Louvre, the painting is named Virgin and Child with the Infant Saint John, also known as Virgin with the Veil or Virgin with the Blue Diadem. Additional names include Virgin with the Linen, Slumbering Child and Silence of the Holy Virgin.. The Madonna with the Blue Diadem is a painting by Raphael and his pupil Gianfrancesco Penni, and was most likely painted in Rome around 1512, now at the Louvre. In the Louvre, the painting is named Virgin and Child with the Infant Saint John, also known as Virgin with the Veil or Virgin with the Blue Diadem. Additional names include Virgin with the Linen, Slumbering Child and Silence of the Holy Virgin.. 
Firemen's Memorial. Author Name: John Albert Wilson. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/American_Renaissance. . Firemen’s Memorial is a statue located in Forest Hills Cemetery, Jamaica Plain, Boston. The monument was created by John A. Wilson in 1909. Each year on the second Sunday in June, memorial services sponsored by the Charitable Association of the Boston Fire Department are held at the Firemen's Memorial at Forest Hills Cemetery in order to pay tribute to deceased members so they would be assured of a decent and final resting place and they would not necessarily end up in Pauper's Field.. Firemen’s Memorial is a statue located in Forest Hills Cemetery, Jamaica Plain, Boston. The monument was created by John A. Wilson in 1909. Each year on the second Sunday in June, memorial services sponsored by the Charitable Association of the Boston Fire Department are held at the Firemen's Memorial at Forest Hills Cemetery in order to pay tribute to deceased members so they would be assured of a decent and final resting place and they would not necessarily end up in Pauper's Field. On a lofty granite base a larger-than-life fireman in bronze, attired for service but in a moment of contemplation. On each side of the pedestal were set bronze plaques, 3 ft. by 4 ft., depicting the spirit of Louis Maurer's famous series of prints entitled "The Life of a Firemen" (published by Currier and Ives in 1854). Shown in vivid bas-relief were horse-powered equipment and men en route to their duty. The plaque on the rear of the statue pictures a nineteenth-century pumper as it would have looked between fires in the firehouse with no horses, men, or background. The memorial was dedicated in grand style on June 14, 1909. On that day, set aside in all the state for past firemen, the memorial was dedicated in a ceremony partially presided over by John F. Fitzgerald, grandfather of John F. Kennedy and former mayor of Boston.. 
Juno and Argus. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Juno and Argus is a 1610 painting by Peter Paul Rubens, showing Juno and Argus. It is now in the Wallraf-Richartz Museum (inventory number WRM 1040) in Cologne.. Juno and Argus is a 1610 painting by Peter Paul Rubens, showing Juno and Argus. It is now in the Wallraf-Richartz Museum (inventory number WRM 1040) in Cologne.. 
Saint Roch Interceding with the. Author Name: Jacques-Louis David. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . Saint Roch Interceding with the Virgin for the Plague-Stricken is an early religious painting by the French artist Jacques-Louis David. He painted it in 1780 during his stay at the Villa Medici in Rome after winning first prize for painting in the Prix de Rome (before his Portrait of count Stanislas Potocki) and exhibited it at the 1781 Paris Salon on his return to France. Its influences include Caravaggio, Poussin, Guercino and Lebrun. It shows Saint Roch interceding to the Virgin Mary and Christ Child for the plague sufferers shown around him.. Saint Roch Interceding with the Virgin for the Plague-Stricken is an early religious painting by the French artist Jacques-Louis David. He painted it in 1780 during his stay at the Villa Medici in Rome after winning first prize for painting in the Prix de Rome (before his Portrait of count Stanislas Potocki) and exhibited it at the 1781 Paris Salon on his return to France. Its influences include Caravaggio, Poussin, Guercino and Lebrun. It shows Saint Roch interceding to the Virgin Mary and Christ Child for the plague sufferers shown around him.. 
Moulin Rouge: La Goulue. Author Name: Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Art_Nouveau. . Moulin Rouge: La Goulue is a poster by French artist Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec. It is a colour lithograph from 1891, probably printed in about 3,000 copies, advertising the famous dancers La Goulue and "No-Bones" Valentin, and the new Paris dance hall Moulin Rouge. Although most examples were pasted as advertising posters and lost, surviving examples are in the collection of the Indianapolis Museum of Art and many other institutions.. Moulin Rouge: La Goulue is a poster by French artist Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec. It is a colour lithograph from 1891, probably printed in about 3,000 copies, advertising the famous dancers La Goulue and "No-Bones" Valentin, and the new Paris dance hall Moulin Rouge. Although most examples were pasted as advertising posters and lost, surviving examples are in the collection of the Indianapolis Museum of Art and many other institutions.. 
Gulgardi. Author Name: Kaapa Mbitjana Tjampitjinpa. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Contemporary_Indigenous_Australian_art. . Sandpainting is the art of pouring colored sands, and powdered pigments from minerals or crystals, or pigments from other natural or synthetic sources onto a surface to make a fixed, or unfixed sand painting. Unfixed sand paintings have a long established cultural history in numerous social groupings around the globe, and are often temporary, ritual paintings prepared for religious or healing ceremonies. It is also referred to as drypainting.. Sandpainting is the art of pouring colored sands, and powdered pigments from minerals or crystals, or pigments from other natural or synthetic sources onto a surface to make a fixed, or unfixed sand painting. Unfixed sand paintings have a long established cultural history in numerous social groupings around the globe, and are often temporary, ritual paintings prepared for religious or healing ceremonies. It is also referred to as drypainting. Drypainting is practiced by Native Americans in the Southwestern United States, by Tibetan and Buddhist monks, as well as Australian Aborigines, and also by Latin Americans on certain Christian holy days.. 
Arles: View from the Wheat Fields. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Arles: View from the Wheat Fields (also known as Wheat Field with Sheaves and Arles in the Background) was painted by Vincent van Gogh in June, 1888, among a number of paintings he made of wheat fields that summer. It is currently displayed at the Musee Rodin in Paris, France.. Arles: View from the Wheat Fields (also known as Wheat Field with Sheaves and Arles in the Background) was painted by Vincent van Gogh in June, 1888, among a number of paintings he made of wheat fields that summer. It is currently displayed at the Musee Rodin in Paris, France.. 
John J. Pershing General of the Armies. Author Name: Robert White. . . John J. Pershing General of the Armies, is a public artwork by American artist Robert White, located at Pershing Park in Washington, D.C., United States. John J. Pershing General of the Armies was originally surveyed as part of the Smithsonian's Save Outdoor Sculpture! survey in 1994. The monument is a tribute to United States Army general John J. Pershing.. John J. Pershing General of the Armies, is a public artwork by American artist Robert White, located at Pershing Park in Washington, D.C., United States. John J. Pershing General of the Armies was originally surveyed as part of the Smithsonian's Save Outdoor Sculpture! survey in 1994. The monument is a tribute to United States Army general John J. Pershing.. 
The Valpinçon Bather. Author Name: Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . The Valpinçon Bather (Fr: La Grande Baigneuse) is an 1808 painting by the French Neoclassical artist Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres (1780-1867), held in the Louvre since 1879. Painted while the artist was studying at the French Academy in Rome, it was originally titled Seated Woman but later became known after one of its nineteenth-century owners.Ingres returned to the form of this figure a number of times in his life; culminating in his The Turkish Bath of 1863, where the central figure in the foreground playing a mandolin, echoes in rhythm and tone the model of the Valpinçon bather.. The Valpinçon Bather (Fr: La Grande Baigneuse) is an 1808 painting by the French Neoclassical artist Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres (1780-1867), held in the Louvre since 1879. Painted while the artist was studying at the French Academy in Rome, it was originally titled Seated Woman but later became known after one of its nineteenth-century owners. Although the painting was not met with favour by critics when first exhibited, almost fifty years later, when the artist's reputation was well established, the Goncourt brothers wrote that "Rembrandt himself would have envied the amber color of this pale torso", while the Louvre described it as "a masterpiece of harmonious lines and delicate light". Ingres had earlier painted female nudes, such as his Bathing Woman of 1807, yet this work is widely regarded as his first great treatment of the subject. As with the previous smaller work, the model is shown from behind, however The Valpinçon Bather lacks the earlier painting's overt sexuality, instead depicting a calm and measured sensuality. Charles Baudelaire (1821-1867) described the model as having a "deep voluptuousness", yet in many ways she is presented as essentially chaste. This contradiction is apparent in many elements of the painting. The turn of her neck and the curves of her back and legs are accentuated by the fall of the metallic green draperies, the swell of the white curtain in front of her and the folds of the bed sheets and linen. However, these elements are countered by the cool tone in which her flesh is rendered as well as by elements such as the elegant black-veined marble to the left of her. Remarking on Ingres ability to paint the human body in a unique manner, the art critic Robert Rosenblum wrote that "the ultimate effect of the [The Valpinçon Bather] is of a magical suspension of time and movement-even of the laws of gravity...the figure seems to float weightlessy upon the enamel smoothness of the surface, exerting only the most delicate pressure, and the gravitational expectations of the heaviest earthbound forms are surprisingly controverted." Ingres returned to the form of this figure a number of times in his life; culminating in his The Turkish Bath of 1863, where the central figure in the foreground playing a mandolin, echoes in rhythm and tone the model of the Valpinçon bather.. 
Cubi XXVI. Author Name: David Smith. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . Cubi XXVI is an abstract sculpture by David Smith, in the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden in Washington, D.C., USA.Constructed of stainless steel on January 12, 1965, it was purchased in 1978. It was on loan to the White House. It is a part of the Cubi series.. Cubi XXVI is an abstract sculpture by David Smith, in the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden in Washington, D.C., USA. Constructed of stainless steel on January 12, 1965, it was purchased in 1978. It was on loan to the White House. It is a part of the Cubi series.. 
The Origin of the Milky Way. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Origin of the Milky Way, or The Birth of the Milky Way, is a painting by the Flemish artist Peter Paul Rubens, featuring the Greco-Roman myth of the origin of the Milky Way. The painting depicts Hera (Juno), spilling her breast milk, the infant Heracles (Hercules) and Zeus (Jupiter) in the background, identifiable by his eagle and lightening bolts. Hera's face is modelled on Rubens' wife, Hélène Fourment. The carriage is pulled by Hera's favourite animals, peacocks. Due to the dark background of the night sky the figures gain a greater sense of volume.. The Origin of the Milky Way, or The Birth of the Milky Way, is a painting by the Flemish artist Peter Paul Rubens, featuring the Greco-Roman myth of the origin of the Milky Way. The painting depicts Hera (Juno), spilling her breast milk, the infant Heracles (Hercules) and Zeus (Jupiter) in the background, identifiable by his eagle and lightening bolts. Hera's face is modelled on Rubens' wife, Hélène Fourment. The carriage is pulled by Hera's favourite animals, peacocks. Due to the dark background of the night sky the figures gain a greater sense of volume. The image was a part of the commission from Philip IV of Spain to decorate Torre de la Parada. Rubens also painted other Greco-Roman mythological subjects, such as Hercules Fighting the Nemean Lion or Perseus Freeing Andromeda.. 
Adoration of the Magi. Author Name: Gentile da Fabriano. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/International_Gothic. . The Adoration of the Magi is a painting by the Italian painter Gentile da Fabriano. The work, housed in the Uffizi Gallery in Florence, Italy, is considered his finest work, and has been described as "the culminating work of International Gothic painting".. The Adoration of the Magi is a painting by the Italian painter Gentile da Fabriano. The work, housed in the Uffizi Gallery in Florence, Italy, is considered his finest work, and has been described as "the culminating work of International Gothic painting". The painting was commissioned by the Florentine literate and patron of the arts Palla Strozzi, at the arrival of the artist in the city in 1420. Palla paid 300 florins for the altarpiece, or about six times the annual salary of a skilled labourer. According to Baldwin both Palla Strozzi and his father, Onofrio, appear in the painting − Palla as the man in the red hat in the forefront of the painting, and Onofrio as the falcon trainer situated behind the youngest king. According to other opinions, the falcon trainer depicts the commissioner Palla Strozzi with his eldest son Lorenzo to his right. Finished in 1423, the painting was placed in the new chapel of the church of Santa Trinita which Lorenzo Ghiberti was executing in these years. The works shows both the international and Sienese schools' influences on Gentile's art, combined with the Renaissance novelties he knew in Florence. The panel portrays the path of the three Magi, in several scenes which start from the upper left corner (the voyage and the entrance into Bethlehem) and continue clockwise, to the larger meeting with the Virgin Mary and the newborn Jesus which occupies the lowest part of the picture. All the figures wear splendid Renaissance costumes, brocades richly decorated with real gold and precious stones inserted in the panel. Gentile's typical attention for detail is also evident in the exotic animals, such as a leopard, a dromedary, some apes and a lion, as well as the magnificent horses and a hound. The frame is also a work of art, characterized by three cusps with tondoes portraying Christ Blessing (centre) and the Annunciation (with the Archangel Gabriel on the left and the Madonna on the right). The predella has three rectangular paintings with scenes of Jesus' childhood: the Nativity, the Flight into Egypt and the Presentation at the Temple (the latter a copy, the original being in the Louvre in Paris).. 
Caspar David Friedrich in his Studio. Author Name: Georg Friedrich Kersting. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Biedermeier. . Caspar David Friedrich in his Studio refers to two paintings by the German romantic artist Georg Friedrich Kersting of 1811 and 1819. Of these the 1819 version is the best known. In these two paintings Kersting depicted fellow German painter Caspar David Friedrich in his studio.. Caspar David Friedrich in his Studio refers to two paintings by the German romantic artist Georg Friedrich Kersting of 1811 and 1819. Of these the 1819 version is the best known. In these two paintings Kersting depicted fellow German painter Caspar David Friedrich in his studio.. 
Twelve Responses to Tragedy. Author Name: Conner, Angela. . . Twelve Responses to Tragedy or the Yalta Memorial is a memorial located in the Yalta Memorial Garden on Cromwell Road in South Kensington in west London. The memorial commemorates people displaced as a result of the Yalta Conference at the conclusion of the Second World War. Created by the British sculptor Angela Conner, the work consists of twelve bronze busts atop a stone base. The memorial was dedicated in 1986 to replace a previous memorial (also by Conner) from 1982 that had been repeatedly damaged by vandalism.. Twelve Responses to Tragedy or the Yalta Memorial is a memorial located in the Yalta Memorial Garden on Cromwell Road in South Kensington in west London. The memorial commemorates people displaced as a result of the Yalta Conference at the conclusion of the Second World War. Created by the British sculptor Angela Conner, the work consists of twelve bronze busts atop a stone base. The memorial was dedicated in 1986 to replace a previous memorial (also by Conner) from 1982 that had been repeatedly damaged by vandalism.. 
Christ Carrying the Cross. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . Christ Carrying the Cross is a painting generally attributed to Hieronymus Bosch. It was painted in the early 16th century, presumably between 1500 and 1535. The work is housed in the Museum of Fine Arts in Ghent, Belgium.. Christ Carrying the Cross is a painting generally attributed to Hieronymus Bosch. It was painted in the early 16th century, presumably between 1500 and 1535. The work is housed in the Museum of Fine Arts in Ghent, Belgium.. 
Saint Francis Receiving the Stigmata. Author Name: Bondone, Giotto Di. . Author Movement: Proto-Renaissance. . Saint Francis Receiving the Stigmata is a panel painting in tempera by the Italian artist Giotto, painted around 1295–1300 and now in the Musée du Louvre in Paris. It shows an episode from the life of Saint Francis of Assisi, and is 314 cm high (to the top of the triangule) by 162 cm wide.. Saint Francis Receiving the Stigmata is a panel painting in tempera by the Italian artist Giotto, painted around 1295–1300 and now in the Musée du Louvre in Paris. It shows an episode from the life of Saint Francis of Assisi, and is 314 cm high (to the top of the triangule) by 162 cm wide.. 
Quaratesi Polyptych. Author Name: Gentile da Fabriano. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/International_Gothic. . The Quaratesi Polyptych is a painting by the Italian late medieval painter Gentile da Fabriano, now divided between several museums.It was painted by the artist for the Quaratesi family's chapel in the Church of San Niccolò Oltrarno, perhaps not a long time after the Strozzi Altarpiece. Today four of the five original compartments (including the painted cusp) are known, as well as some parts of the predella (which has scenes of the Life of St. Nicholas):. The Quaratesi Polyptych is a painting by the Italian late medieval painter Gentile da Fabriano, now divided between several museums. It was painted by the artist for the Quaratesi family's chapel in the Church of San Niccolò Oltrarno, perhaps not a long time after the Strozzi Altarpiece. Today four of the five original compartments (including the painted cusp) are known, as well as some parts of the predella (which has scenes of the Life of St. Nicholas):. 
Number 17A. Author Name: Jackson Pollock. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . Number 17A is a painting by Jackson Pollock, an American painter known for his contributions to the abstract expressionist movement.. Number 17A is a painting by Jackson Pollock, an American painter known for his contributions to the abstract expressionist movement.. 
I AM THE BEST ARTIST René. Author Name: Moncada, René. . Author Movement: Street art; Outsider art. . Beginning in the late 1970s, and continuing into the 1990s in New York City, several prominently located murals of impressive size proclaimed I AM THE BEST ARTIST René to all who walked or drove passed them along the streets of SoHo. The murals were the creations of artist René Moncada, who was among the earliest residents of the neighborhood through its rise as the center of the 1980s New York Art World.The murals placed René at the forefront of street artists of the era and helped transform the streets of the art district into an alternative exhibition venue.. Beginning in the late 1970s, and continuing into the 1990s in New York City, several prominently located murals of impressive size proclaimed I AM THE BEST ARTIST René to all who walked or drove passed them along the streets of SoHo. The murals were the creations of artist René Moncada, who was among the earliest residents of the neighborhood through its rise as the center of the 1980s New York Art World. René Moncada's I AM THE BEST ARTIST René murals became icons not only of the neighborhood's art world associations but of the era in general, when art became a profitable commodity and SoHo became its Wall Street.The murals have been likened to effective advertising slogans and recognized as an early act of "art provocation". The murals placed René at the forefront of street artists of the era and helped transform the streets of the art district into an alternative exhibition venue.. 
Love and the Maiden. Author Name: John Roddam Spencer Stanhope. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Aestheticism. . Love and the Maiden is a tempera on canvas by English Pre-Raphaelite artist John Roddam Spencer Stanhope, executed in 1877 and currently housed at the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco.. Love and the Maiden is a tempera on canvas by English Pre-Raphaelite artist John Roddam Spencer Stanhope, executed in 1877 and currently housed at the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco.. 
Miracle of the Cross at the Ponte di Rialto. Author Name: Vittore Carpaccio. . . The Miracle of the Cross at the Ponte di Rialto, also known as The Healing of the Madman (Italian: Miracolo della Croce a Rialto) is a painting by Italian Renaissance artist Vittore Carpaccio, dating from c. 1496. It is now housed in the Gallerie dell'Accademia in Venice.. The Miracle of the Cross at the Ponte di Rialto, also known as The Healing of the Madman (Italian: Miracolo della Croce a Rialto) is a painting by Italian Renaissance artist Vittore Carpaccio, dating from c. 1496. It is now housed in the Gallerie dell'Accademia in Venice.. 
Marriage of the Virgin. Author Name: Besozzo, Michelino Molinari Da. . . The Marriage of the Virgin is a painting by the Italian late medieval painter Michelino da Besozzo, dating from c. 1435 and housed in the Metropolitan Museum of Art of New York, USA.It is the artist's only certain one alongside Mystical Marriage of Saint Catherine in the Pinacoteca Nazionale at Siena.. The Marriage of the Virgin is a painting by the Italian late medieval painter Michelino da Besozzo, dating from c. 1435 and housed in the Metropolitan Museum of Art of New York, USA. It is the artist's only certain one alongside Mystical Marriage of Saint Catherine in the Pinacoteca Nazionale at Siena.. 
Liberty Leading the People. Author Name: Eugène Delacroix. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . Liberty Leading the People (French: La Liberté guidant le peuple) is a painting by Eugène Delacroix commemorating the July Revolution of 1830, which toppled King Charles X of France. A woman personifying the concept and the goddess of Liberty leads the people forward over the bodies of the fallen, holding the flag of the French Revolution – the tricolour flag, which remains France's national flag – in one hand and brandishing a bayonetted musket with the other. The figure of Liberty is also viewed as a symbol of France and the French Republic known as Marianne.. Liberty Leading the People (French: La Liberté guidant le peuple) is a painting by Eugène Delacroix commemorating the July Revolution of 1830, which toppled King Charles X of France. A woman personifying the concept and the goddess of Liberty leads the people forward over the bodies of the fallen, holding the flag of the French Revolution – the tricolour flag, which remains France's national flag – in one hand and brandishing a bayonetted musket with the other. The figure of Liberty is also viewed as a symbol of France and the French Republic known as Marianne.. 
Digital Orca. Author Name: Coupland, Douglas. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Literary_modernism. . Digital Orca is a 2009 sculpture by Douglas Coupland, located adjacent to the Vancouver Convention Centre in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. The work, part of the Vancouver Convention Centre Art Project, is commonly referred to as Lego Orca or Pixel Whale.. Digital Orca is a 2009 sculpture by Douglas Coupland, located adjacent to the Vancouver Convention Centre in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. The work, part of the Vancouver Convention Centre Art Project, is commonly referred to as Lego Orca or Pixel Whale.. 
Sinai. Author Name: Isamu Noguchi. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Biomorphism. . Sinai is a public artwork by the Japanese American artist Isamu Noguchi, located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden, which is near Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States of America. Sinai is a cast iron sculpture measuring 36 inches high, 21 inches wide, and 11 inches deep. It is part of a series of work created between the 1967 and 1969, during which time Noguchi was collaborating with the Japanese stone carver Masatoshi Izumi.. Sinai is a public artwork by the Japanese American artist Isamu Noguchi, located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden, which is near Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States of America. Sinai is a cast iron sculpture measuring 36 inches high, 21 inches wide, and 11 inches deep. It is part of a series of work created between the 1967 and 1969, during which time Noguchi was collaborating with the Japanese stone carver Masatoshi Izumi.. 
Reaching. Author Name: Frudakis, Zenos. . . Reaching is a public artwork by artist Zenos Frudakis, located in downtown Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. It is a figurative bronze portrait of a nude male and female. Each figure is leaping and reaching, arms outstretched toward the other.. Reaching is a public artwork by artist Zenos Frudakis, located in downtown Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. It is a figurative bronze portrait of a nude male and female. Each figure is leaping and reaching, arms outstretched toward the other.. 
Music. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . Music (La Musique) is a painting made by Henri Matisse in 1910. The painting was commissioned by Sergei Shchukin, who hung it with Dance on the staircase of his Moscow mansion. Matisse made the painting without any preparatory sketches, and thus the painting bears many traces of modifications. One can virtually trace the steps Matisse took to find the intended effect. Like in Dance, the aim was to show man's attainment of a state of completeness by immersion in creativity. The painting is now in the collection of the Hermitage Museum in Saint Petersburg, Russia.. Music (La Musique) is a painting made by Henri Matisse in 1910. The painting was commissioned by Sergei Shchukin, who hung it with Dance on the staircase of his Moscow mansion. Matisse made the painting without any preparatory sketches, and thus the painting bears many traces of modifications. One can virtually trace the steps Matisse took to find the intended effect. Like in Dance, the aim was to show man's attainment of a state of completeness by immersion in creativity. The painting is now in the collection of the Hermitage Museum in Saint Petersburg, Russia.. 
Christmas in the Brothel. Author Name: Edvard Munch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Expressionism. . Christmas in the Brothel (Norwegian: Julaften i bordell) is an oil-on-canvas painting by Norwegian painter Edvard Munch. The Expressionist painting was completed in 1903–04 and is housed at the Munch Museum in Oslo.. Christmas in the Brothel (Norwegian: Julaften i bordell) is an oil-on-canvas painting by Norwegian painter Edvard Munch. The Expressionist painting was completed in 1903–04 and is housed at the Munch Museum in Oslo.. 
Portrait of a Seated Gentleman. Author Name: Delapierre, Nicolas Benjamin. . . Portrait of a Seated Gentleman is a portrait painted by Nicolas Benjamin Delapierre in 1785. Neither the subject nor the provenance before 1928 are known.. Portrait of a Seated Gentleman is a portrait painted by Nicolas Benjamin Delapierre in 1785. Neither the subject nor the provenance before 1928 are known.. 
Portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer II. Author Name: Gustav Klimt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Art_Nouveau. . Portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer II is a 1912 painting by Gustav Klimt.Adele Bloch-Bauer (1881–1925) was a refined art-loving Viennese salon lady, a patron and close friend of Gustav Klimt.. Portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer II is a 1912 painting by Gustav Klimt. Adele Bloch-Bauer (1881–1925) was a refined art-loving Viennese salon lady, a patron and close friend of Gustav Klimt.. 
Silver Car Crash. Author Name: Andy Warhol. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Silver Car Crash (Double Disaster) is a 1963 painting by the American artist Andy Warhol. In November 2013 it sold for $105m (£65.5m) at auction, setting a new highest price for a painting by Warhol.. Silver Car Crash (Double Disaster) is a 1963 painting by the American artist Andy Warhol. In November 2013 it sold for $105m (£65.5m) at auction, setting a new highest price for a painting by Warhol.. 
Family. Author Name: Blumenfeld, Helaine. . . Family is a public artwork by American artist Helaine Blumenfeld located on the Henry Reuss Federal Plaza, which is in downtown Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States. The sculpture is made from Norwegian blue granite. It consists of five forms, with the largest form measuring approximately 89 x 58 x 27 inches. Family was installed in the Henry Reuss Federal Plaza in 1983.. Family is a public artwork by American artist Helaine Blumenfeld located on the Henry Reuss Federal Plaza, which is in downtown Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States. The sculpture is made from Norwegian blue granite. It consists of five forms, with the largest form measuring approximately 89 x 58 x 27 inches. Family was installed in the Henry Reuss Federal Plaza in 1983.. 
Kazanie Skargi. Author Name: Jan Matejko. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/History_painting. . Kazanie Skargi (English: Skarga's Sermon) is a large oil painting by Jan Matejko, finished in 1864, now in the National Museum, Warsaw in Poland. It depicts a sermon on political matters by the Jesuit priest Piotr Skarga, a chief figure of the Counter Reformation in Poland, where he rebukes the Polish elite for neglecting the national interest.. Kazanie Skargi (English: Skarga's Sermon) is a large oil painting by Jan Matejko, finished in 1864, now in the National Museum, Warsaw in Poland. It depicts a sermon on political matters by the Jesuit priest Piotr Skarga, a chief figure of the Counter Reformation in Poland, where he rebukes the Polish elite for neglecting the national interest. Skarga's Sermon is among Matejko's most famous works, and like other historical paintings by Matejko includes several portraits of identifiable historical figures of the period depicted, as well as in this case a self-portrait of the artist in the figure of Skarga.. 
The Golden Fleece. Author Name: Tom Roberts. . . The Golden Fleece, originally known as Shearing at Newstead, is an 1894 painting by the Australian artist Tom Roberts. The painting depicts sheep shearers plying their trade in a timber shearing shed at Newstead North, a sheep station near Inverell on the Northern Tablelands of New South Wales. The same shed is depicted in another of Roberts' works, Shearing Shed, Newstead (1894).The painting, said to be "an icon of Australian art", is part of the collection of the Art Gallery of New South Wales.. The Golden Fleece, originally known as Shearing at Newstead, is an 1894 painting by the Australian artist Tom Roberts. The painting depicts sheep shearers plying their trade in a timber shearing shed at Newstead North, a sheep station near Inverell on the Northern Tablelands of New South Wales. The same shed is depicted in another of Roberts' works, Shearing Shed, Newstead (1894). The painting was originally titled Shearing at Newstead but was renamed The Golden Fleece after the Golden Fleece of Greek mythology to honour the wool industry and the nobility of the shearers. This was in keeping with Roberts' conscious idealisation of the Australian pastoral worker and landscape. The painting, said to be "an icon of Australian art", is part of the collection of the Art Gallery of New South Wales.. 
Eight Elvises. Author Name: Andy Warhol. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Eight Elvises is a 1963 silkscreen painting by American pop artist Andy Warhol. In 2008 it was sold for $100 million to a private buyer, making the painting the most valuable work by Andy Warhol at the time. The current owner and location of the painting, which has not been seen publicly since the 1960s, are unknown.. Eight Elvises is a 1963 silkscreen painting by American pop artist Andy Warhol. In 2008 it was sold for $100 million to a private buyer, making the painting the most valuable work by Andy Warhol at the time. The current owner and location of the painting, which has not been seen publicly since the 1960s, are unknown.. 
Poland. Author Name: Mark di Suvero. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . Poland is a public art work by artist Mark di Suvero located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture is an abstract form; it is installed on the lawn.. Poland is a public art work by artist Mark di Suvero located at the Lynden Sculpture Garden near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sculpture is an abstract form; it is installed on the lawn.. 
Santa Maria in Porto Altarpiece. Author Name: Roberti, Ercole de'. . . The Santa Maria in Porto Altarpiece is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Ercole de' Roberti, executed in 1479-1481 and housed in the Pinacoteca di Brera, Milan, northern Italy.It was executed for the church of Santa Maria in Porto, just outside Ravenna. In the 16th century it was moved to the church St. Francis in the same city but, after the Napoleonic invasion of Italy, it was moved to Milan, being housed at Brera since 1811.. The Santa Maria in Porto Altarpiece is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Ercole de' Roberti, executed in 1479-1481 and housed in the Pinacoteca di Brera, Milan, northern Italy. It was executed for the church of Santa Maria in Porto, just outside Ravenna. In the 16th century it was moved to the church St. Francis in the same city but, after the Napoleonic invasion of Italy, it was moved to Milan, being housed at Brera since 1811.. 
The Gross Clinic. Author Name: Thomas Eakins. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Gross Clinic, or, The Clinic of Dr. Gross, is an 1875 painting by American artist Thomas Eakins. It is oil on canvas and measures 8 feet (240 cm) by 6.5 feet (200 cm). Dr. Samuel D. Gross, a seventy-year-old professor dressed in a black frock coat, lectures a group of Jefferson Medical College students. Included among the group is a self-portrait of Eakins, who is seated to the right of the tunnel railing, sketching or writing. Seen over Dr. Gross's right shoulder is the clinic clerk, Dr. Franklin West, taking notes on the operation. Eakins's signature is painted into the painting, on the front of the surgical table.. The Gross Clinic, or, The Clinic of Dr. Gross, is an 1875 painting by American artist Thomas Eakins. It is oil on canvas and measures 8 feet (240 cm) by 6.5 feet (200 cm). Dr. Samuel D. Gross, a seventy-year-old professor dressed in a black frock coat, lectures a group of Jefferson Medical College students. Included among the group is a self-portrait of Eakins, who is seated to the right of the tunnel railing, sketching or writing. Seen over Dr. Gross's right shoulder is the clinic clerk, Dr. Franklin West, taking notes on the operation. Eakins's signature is painted into the painting, on the front of the surgical table.. 
The Kingfisher. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . The Kingfisher is an Oil on canvas painting by the well known Dutch artist Vincent Van Gogh that was painted from July to December of 1886. The Kingfisher was painted in Paris, France. It is now located in Amsterdam, Netherlands, at the Van Gogh Museum.The Kingfisher is painted with a River Kingfisher in a marsh, looking to the right of the Painting. It also includes the name "Vincent" to the lower left corner of the painting.. The Kingfisher is an Oil on canvas painting by the well known Dutch artist Vincent Van Gogh that was painted from July to December of 1886. The Kingfisher was painted in Paris, France. It is now located in Amsterdam, Netherlands, at the Van Gogh Museum. The Kingfisher is painted with a River Kingfisher in a marsh, looking to the right of the Painting. It also includes the name "Vincent" to the lower left corner of the painting.. 
I am Half-Sick of Shadows, said the Lady of Shalott. Author Name: John William Waterhouse. . . I am Half-Sick of Shadows, said the Lady of Shalott is a painting by John William Waterhouse completed in 1916. One of three depicting scenes from the Tennyson poem, "The Lady of Shalott", it shows the Lady resting from her weaving work.. I am Half-Sick of Shadows, said the Lady of Shalott is a painting by John William Waterhouse completed in 1916. One of three depicting scenes from the Tennyson poem, "The Lady of Shalott", it shows the Lady resting from her weaving work.. 
San Giorgio Maggiore at Dusk. Author Name: Claude Monet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Saint-Georges majeur au crépuscule (Eng: Dusk in Venice, San Giorgio Maggiore by Twilight or Sunset in Venice) is an Impressionist painting by Claude Monet completed between 1908 and 1912. It forms part of a series of views of the monastery-island of San Giorgio Maggiore begun in 1908 during his only visit to Venice.The piece is a life study view of San Giorgio Maggiore, focusing on the Church of San Giorgio Maggiore, its bell tower, against the small island at sunset. To the right are the faintly visible domes of Santa Maria della Salute and the mouth of the Grand Canal.. Saint-Georges majeur au crépuscule (Eng: Dusk in Venice, San Giorgio Maggiore by Twilight or Sunset in Venice) is an Impressionist painting by Claude Monet completed between 1908 and 1912. It forms part of a series of views of the monastery-island of San Giorgio Maggiore begun in 1908 during his only visit to Venice. Monet felt Venice was a city "too beautiful to be painted", which may be why he returned with many paintings unfinished to Giverny, his home in France. However, he had already abandoned his earlier practice of painting from life, in front of the subject; instead he worked on the Venetian scenes at home. The death of his wife Alice in 1911 seems to have been a factor in their completion. In 1912 he held a successful exhibition at the gallery Bernheim-Jeune in Paris, where the painting was acquired by the Welsh art collector Gwendoline Davies.She bequeathed it to the Art Gallery (now National Museum Cardiff) in Cardiff, Wales. The piece is a life study view of San Giorgio Maggiore, focusing on the Church of San Giorgio Maggiore, its bell tower, against the small island at sunset. To the right are the faintly visible domes of Santa Maria della Salute and the mouth of the Grand Canal.. 
Raven Gargoyle. Author Name: Wayne Chabre. . . Raven Gargoyle is an outdoor 1987 sculpture by Wayne Chabre, installed in 1988 on the University of Oregon campus in Eugene, Oregon, in the United States. The hammered copper head of a raven with a Kwakiutl Indian mask, built on a stainless steel frame, measures approximately 4 feet (1.2 m) x 3 feet (0.91 m) x 4 feet (1.2 m). It was surveyed and deemed "treatment needed" by the Smithsonian Institution's "Save Outdoor Sculpture!" program in March 1993. The sculpture is administered by the University of Oregon.. Raven Gargoyle is an outdoor 1987 sculpture by Wayne Chabre, installed in 1988 on the University of Oregon campus in Eugene, Oregon, in the United States. The hammered copper head of a raven with a Kwakiutl Indian mask, built on a stainless steel frame, measures approximately 4 feet (1.2 m) x 3 feet (0.91 m) x 4 feet (1.2 m). It was surveyed and deemed "treatment needed" by the Smithsonian Institution's "Save Outdoor Sculpture!" program in March 1993. The sculpture is administered by the University of Oregon.. 
Les Femmes d'Alger. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Les Femmes d'Alger (Women of Algiers) is a series of 15 paintings and numerous drawings by the Spanish cubist artist Pablo Picasso. The series was inspired by Eugène Delacroix's 1834 painting The Women of Algiers in their Apartment (French: Femmes d'Alger dans leur appartement). The series is one of several painted by Picasso in tribute to artists that he admired.Many of the individual paintings in the series are now in prominent public and private collections.. Les Femmes d'Alger (Women of Algiers) is a series of 15 paintings and numerous drawings by the Spanish cubist artist Pablo Picasso. The series was inspired by Eugène Delacroix's 1834 painting The Women of Algiers in their Apartment (French: Femmes d'Alger dans leur appartement). The series is one of several painted by Picasso in tribute to artists that he admired. The entire series of Les Femmes d'Alger was bought by Victor and Sally Ganz from the Galerie Louise Leiris in Paris for $212,500 in June 1956. Ten paintings from the series were later sold by the Ganz's to the Saidenberg Gallery, with the couple keeping versions "C", "H", "K", "M" and "O". Many of the individual paintings in the series are now in prominent public and private collections.. 
Breton Women at a Wall. Author Name: Émile Bernard. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cloisonnism. . Breton Women at a Wall is an oil painting by Émile Bernard. It is part of the permanent collection of the Indianapolis Museum of Art.. Breton Women at a Wall is an oil painting by Émile Bernard. It is part of the permanent collection of the Indianapolis Museum of Art.. 
Birnbaum. Author Name: Gustav Klimt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Art_Nouveau. . Birnbaum (English : Pear tree) is a painting by Gustav Klimt from his Golden phase. Painting was painted in 1903, and today is housed in Busch-Reisinger Museum, Harvard University Art Museums, USA.. Birnbaum (English : Pear tree) is a painting by Gustav Klimt from his Golden phase. Painting was painted in 1903, and today is housed in Busch-Reisinger Museum, Harvard University Art Museums, USA.. 
Numbers 1-0. Author Name: Robert Indiana. . . Numbers 1-0 is a public artwork by the American artist Robert Indiana, located at the Indianapolis Museum of Art (IMA), which is near downtown Indianapolis, Indiana. This series of sculptures is composed of 10 brightly painted numerical digits, each made of aluminum and set on its own base. Their construction took place at the former Lippincott Foundry in North Haven, Connecticut from 1980 to 1983.. Numbers 1-0 is a public artwork by the American artist Robert Indiana, located at the Indianapolis Museum of Art (IMA), which is near downtown Indianapolis, Indiana. This series of sculptures is composed of 10 brightly painted numerical digits, each made of aluminum and set on its own base. Their construction took place at the former Lippincott Foundry in North Haven, Connecticut from 1980 to 1983.. 
Le Pont aux Anglais, soleil couchant. Author Name: Pinchon, Robert Antoine. . Author Movement: Post-Impressionism, Divisionism, Fauvism, École de Rouen. . Le Pont aux Anglais, soleil couchant is an oil painting created in 1905 by the French artist Robert Antoine Pinchon (1886–1943). Associated with the new generation of l'École de Rouen Pinchon executed this work in a Post-Impressionist style with a subdued Fauve or Neo-Impressionist palette of golden yellows and incandescent blues. The dynamic image of the train in Pinchon's painting is an homage to the emerging industrialized world.. Le Pont aux Anglais, soleil couchant is an oil painting created in 1905 by the French artist Robert Antoine Pinchon (1886–1943). Associated with the new generation of l'École de Rouen Pinchon executed this work in a Post-Impressionist style with a subdued Fauve or Neo-Impressionist palette of golden yellows and incandescent blues. The dynamic image of the train in Pinchon's painting is an homage to the emerging industrialized world. The work was exhibited in April 1905 at the Galerie Legrip in Rouen (see photograph), and again at the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Rouen; inauguration 13 November 1909. In the collection of François Depeaux at the time, Le Pont aux Anglais, soleil couchant was purchased by the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Rouen in 1909 where it currently forms part of the permanent collection.. 
St Margaret and the Dragon. Author Name: Titian. . . St Margaret and the Dragon is a c.1559 painting by Titian of saint Margaret the Virgin; it is now in the Museo del Prado in Madrid.. St Margaret and the Dragon is a c.1559 painting by Titian of saint Margaret the Virgin; it is now in the Museo del Prado in Madrid.. 
The Death of Sardanapalus. Author Name: Eugène Delacroix. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . The Death of Sardanapalus (La Mort de Sardanapale) is an oil painting on canvas by Eugène Delacroix, dated 1827. It currently hangs in the Musée du Louvre, Paris.A smaller replica, painted by Delacroix in 1844, is now in the Philadelphia Museum of Art.. The Death of Sardanapalus (La Mort de Sardanapale) is an oil painting on canvas by Eugène Delacroix, dated 1827. It currently hangs in the Musée du Louvre, Paris. A smaller replica, painted by Delacroix in 1844, is now in the Philadelphia Museum of Art.. 
The Engineer's Lover. Author Name: Carlo Carrà. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Futurism. . The Engineer's Lover (Italian: L'amante dell'ingegnere) is a painting by Italian painter Carlo Carrà. It was finished during the metaphysical phase of the artist (1921).It portrays an enigmatic head of a maiden on a brown table, flanked by a green panel with a triangle and a compasses (symbols of rationalism). The black background contributes to underline the timeless atmosphere of the scene.. The Engineer's Lover (Italian: L'amante dell'ingegnere) is a painting by Italian painter Carlo Carrà. It was finished during the metaphysical phase of the artist (1921). It portrays an enigmatic head of a maiden on a brown table, flanked by a green panel with a triangle and a compasses (symbols of rationalism). The black background contributes to underline the timeless atmosphere of the scene.. 
Deposition,. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Deposition, also known as the Pala Baglione, Borghese Deposition or The Entombment, is an oil painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael. Signed and dated "Raphael Urbinas MDVII (1507)", the painting is in the Galleria Borghese in Rome. It is the central panel of a larger altarpiece commissioned by Atalanta Baglioni of Perugia in honor of her slain son, Grifonetto Baglioni. Like many works, it shares elements of the common subjects of the Deposition of Christ, the Lamentation of Christ, and the Entombment of Christ. The painting is on wood panel and measures 184 x 176 cm.. The Deposition, also known as the Pala Baglione, Borghese Deposition or The Entombment, is an oil painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael. Signed and dated "Raphael Urbinas MDVII (1507)", the painting is in the Galleria Borghese in Rome. It is the central panel of a larger altarpiece commissioned by Atalanta Baglioni of Perugia in honor of her slain son, Grifonetto Baglioni. Like many works, it shares elements of the common subjects of the Deposition of Christ, the Lamentation of Christ, and the Entombment of Christ. The painting is on wood panel and measures 184 x 176 cm.. 
Spirit of Indiana. Author Name: Eugene Francis Savage. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Art_Deco. . Spirit of Indiana is a public artwork by American artist Eugene Francis Savage, located in the Indiana State House, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, USA. The mural is 21 feet high by 41.5 feet wide, oil on linen canvas. It was commissioned in 1961 and installation was finished in 1964.. Spirit of Indiana is a public artwork by American artist Eugene Francis Savage, located in the Indiana State House, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, USA. The mural is 21 feet high by 41.5 feet wide, oil on linen canvas. It was commissioned in 1961 and installation was finished in 1964.. 
Chaumière Normande, Vieux Trouville. Author Name: Huet, Paul. . . Normandy Thatched Cottage, Old Trouville (French: Chaumière normande, vieux Trouville) is an oil painting by French artist Paul Huet. It is currently on display at the Musée du Louvre in Paris.. Normandy Thatched Cottage, Old Trouville (French: Chaumière normande, vieux Trouville) is an oil painting by French artist Paul Huet. It is currently on display at the Musée du Louvre in Paris.. 
The Fall of the Titans. Author Name: Cornelis van Haarlem. . . The Fall of the Titans is an oil painting of the Titanomachy made by the Dutch painter Cornelis van Haarlem in 1588–1590. The painting's dimensions are 239 × 307 cm (94 × 121 in). The work is in the collection of the Statens Museum for Kunst in Copenhagen, Denmark. It is a claasic example of an ambitious work of the Haarlem Mannerists.. The Fall of the Titans is an oil painting of the Titanomachy made by the Dutch painter Cornelis van Haarlem in 1588–1590. The painting's dimensions are 239 × 307 cm (94 × 121 in). The work is in the collection of the Statens Museum for Kunst in Copenhagen, Denmark. It is a claasic example of an ambitious work of the Haarlem Mannerists.. 
Not to Be Reproduced. Author Name: René Magritte. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Surrealism. . Not to be Reproduced (La reproduction interdite, 1937) is a painting by the Belgian surrealist René Magritte. It is currently owned by the Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen in Rotterdam.This painting was commissioned by poet and Magritte patron Edward James and is considered a portrait of James although James's face is not depicted. This painting was one of three produced by Magritte for the ballroom of James's London home. The other two were The Red Model (1937) and Time Transfixed (1938).. Not to be Reproduced (La reproduction interdite, 1937) is a painting by the Belgian surrealist René Magritte. It is currently owned by the Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen in Rotterdam. This painting was commissioned by poet and Magritte patron Edward James and is considered a portrait of James although James's face is not depicted. This painting was one of three produced by Magritte for the ballroom of James's London home. The other two were The Red Model (1937) and Time Transfixed (1938). The work depicts a man standing in front of a mirror, but whereas the book on the mantelpiece is reflected correctly, the man can see only the back of his head.. 
la récolte. Author Name: Charles-François Daubigny. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Barbizon_school. . The Harvest (French: la récolte) is an oil on canvas painting by one of the painters of the Barbizon school, Charles-François Daubigny. It was completed in 1851 and is based on Realism style by use of landscape painting genre. The dimensions of the painting is 196 by 135 centimeters and is housed at Musée d'Orsay, Paris, France.. The Harvest (French: la récolte) is an oil on canvas painting by one of the painters of the Barbizon school, Charles-François Daubigny. It was completed in 1851 and is based on Realism style by use of landscape painting genre. The dimensions of the painting is 196 by 135 centimeters and is housed at Musée d'Orsay, Paris, France.. 
Portrait of Pope Innocent X. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Portrait of Pope Innocent X is an oil on canvas portrait by the Spanish painter Diego Velázquez, finished during a trip to Italy around 1650. Many artists and art critics consider it the finest portrait ever created. It is housed in the Galleria Doria Pamphilj in Rome. A smaller version is housed in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, and a study is on display at Apsley House in London.The Irish-born painter Francis Bacon painted a series of variants of this painting called the "Screaming Popes", which are now famous in their own right.. The Portrait of Pope Innocent X is an oil on canvas portrait by the Spanish painter Diego Velázquez, finished during a trip to Italy around 1650. Many artists and art critics consider it the finest portrait ever created. It is housed in the Galleria Doria Pamphilj in Rome. A smaller version is housed in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, and a study is on display at Apsley House in London. The Irish-born painter Francis Bacon painted a series of variants of this painting called the "Screaming Popes", which are now famous in their own right.. 
Venise, La Piazetta seen from the Riva degli Schiavoni. Author Name: Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Venise, La Piazzetta seen from the Riva degli Schiavoni is an 1835-1845 painting by French artist Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot. The painting is currently not on display at the Norton Simon Museum in Pasadena. The painting depicts a promenade in Venice, at the Riva degli Schiavoni.. Venise, La Piazzetta seen from the Riva degli Schiavoni is an 1835-1845 painting by French artist Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot. The painting is currently not on display at the Norton Simon Museum in Pasadena. The painting depicts a promenade in Venice, at the Riva degli Schiavoni.. 
Combat of Love and Chastity. Author Name: Pietro Perugino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Combat of Love and Chastity is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Pietro Perugino, currently housed in the Musée du Louvre, in Paris, France. It was originally commissioned for the studiolo (cabinet) of Isabella d'Este, Marchesa of Mantua, in the Castello di San Giorgio.. Combat of Love and Chastity is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Pietro Perugino, currently housed in the Musée du Louvre, in Paris, France. It was originally commissioned for the studiolo (cabinet) of Isabella d'Este, Marchesa of Mantua, in the Castello di San Giorgio.. 
Adoration of the Magi. Author Name: Verona, Stefano Da. . . The Adoration of the Magi is a Gothic painting by Stefano da Verona. Dating to 1434, it is currently housed in the Pinacoteca di Brera of Milan, northern Italy.The work is signed (Stefanus) and dated, although this has been disputed by several scholars. It is however mentioned by Vasari in his Lives, and was anyway painted by the artist between his return to Verona (1425) and his death (1438).In the 19th century it was owned by the Ottolini family of Verona, who ceded it to Domenico Biasoli. The latter sold it in 1818 to the Pinacoteca di Brera, as a work by Stefano Fiorentino.. The Adoration of the Magi is a Gothic painting by Stefano da Verona. Dating to 1434, it is currently housed in the Pinacoteca di Brera of Milan, northern Italy. The work is signed (Stefanus) and dated, although this has been disputed by several scholars. It is however mentioned by Vasari in his Lives, and was anyway painted by the artist between his return to Verona (1425) and his death (1438). In the 19th century it was owned by the Ottolini family of Verona, who ceded it to Domenico Biasoli. The latter sold it in 1818 to the Pinacoteca di Brera, as a work by Stefano Fiorentino.. 
Unfolding Rhythms. Author Name: Izquierdo, Manuel. . . Unfolding Rhythms is an outdoor 1987 sculpture by Manuel Izquierdo, located in Portland, Oregon, United States.. Unfolding Rhythms is an outdoor 1987 sculpture by Manuel Izquierdo, located in Portland, Oregon, United States.. 
Perseus Freeing Andromeda. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Perseus Freeing Andromeda is a painting by the Flemish artist Peter Paul Rubens, executed in 1607. It is housed in the Gemäldegalerie of Berlin, Germany.The painting belonged the M. Pasquier collection in Rouen, which was auctioned in 1755 in Paris. In the 18th century it entered the collection of Frederick II of Prussia and, in 1830, it became part of the Berlinese museum collection.On the left, two puttoes are playing with Pegasus, Perseus' winged horse.. Perseus Freeing Andromeda is a painting by the Flemish artist Peter Paul Rubens, executed in 1607. It is housed in the Gemäldegalerie of Berlin, Germany. The painting belonged the M. Pasquier collection in Rouen, which was auctioned in 1755 in Paris. In the 18th century it entered the collection of Frederick II of Prussia and, in 1830, it became part of the Berlinese museum collection. The scene is similar to another Perseus Freeing Andromeda by Rubens now in the Hermitage Museum of St. Petersburg. It depicts the Greek mythology hero Perseus in the act of freeing Andromeda, after defeating the sea monster which kept her as prisoner. Perseus, wearing helmet, cuirass and cloak, is sided by two puttoes, and one of them is helping him in removing the ropes that tie Andromeda to the rock. On the left, two puttoes are playing with Pegasus, Perseus' winged horse.. 
Memorial Fountain. Author Name: Skidmore, Owings & Merrill. . . Memorial Fountain is an outdoor fountain created by the architectural firm Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, located outside Veterans Memorial Coliseum in Portland, Oregon, United States.. Memorial Fountain is an outdoor fountain created by the architectural firm Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, located outside Veterans Memorial Coliseum in Portland, Oregon, United States.. 
Portrait of Luca Pacioli. Author Name: Barberi, Jacopo de'. . . The Portrait of Luca Pacioli is a painting attributed to the Italian Renaissance artist Jacopo de' Barbari, dating to around 1500 and housed in the Capodimonte Museum, Naples, southern Italy.. The Portrait of Luca Pacioli is a painting attributed to the Italian Renaissance artist Jacopo de' Barbari, dating to around 1500 and housed in the Capodimonte Museum, Naples, southern Italy.. 
Goldweigher's Field. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Goldweigher's Field is a 1651 etching by Rembrandt now held by many museums, including the British Museum, the Rijksmuseum, and the Metropolitan Museum of Art. It is based on a landscape drawing in the collection of the Museum Boijmans van Beuningen.. The Goldweigher's Field is a 1651 etching by Rembrandt now held by many museums, including the British Museum, the Rijksmuseum, and the Metropolitan Museum of Art. It is based on a landscape drawing in the collection of the Museum Boijmans van Beuningen. It was mistakenly named after the so-called home of the Goldweigher, a portrait that Rembrandt etched, but shows in fact the Saxenburg estate of Bloemendaal with the St. Bavochurch of Haarlem in the distance. The owner of the Saxenburg estate at that time was Christoffel Thijs, the man who sold Rembrandt his house in Amsterdam (today's Rembrandt House Museum). The perspective is taken from the high dunes of Bloemendaal and shows the mirror image of the drawing. The painter Philips Koninck painted a Haerlempje showing the Saxenburg estate with bleachfields, and this painting shows that the field that Rembrandt depicted was used in the summer months by a bleachery. The steeple between the estate on the left and the Haarlem St. Bavochurch in the distance is the Bloemendaal church, which is also visible in the Rembrandt etching and still exists. Saxenburg itself was torn down.. 
The Thinker: Portrait of Louis N. Kenton. Author Name: Thomas Eakins. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Thinker: Portrait of Louis N. Kenton is an oil painting of 1900 by Thomas Eakins. A depiction of the artist's brother-in-law Louis N. Kenton (1865–1947), it has been called "one of Eakins's most memorable portraits". The painting is one of a series of life size standing male portraits painted late in Eakins's career.. The Thinker: Portrait of Louis N. Kenton is an oil painting of 1900 by Thomas Eakins. A depiction of the artist's brother-in-law Louis N. Kenton (1865–1947), it has been called "one of Eakins's most memorable portraits". The painting is one of a series of life size standing male portraits painted late in Eakins's career.. 
Color Fuses. Author Name: Milton Glaser. . . Color Fuses is an outdoor mural by architect Milton Glaser that wraps around the entire ground floor of the Minton-Capehart Federal Building in downtown Indianapolis, Indiana. While the building opened in 1975, the mural was finished in late 1974 and occupies the 672 feet around the entire portico of the building, rising 27 feet high, and showcasing 35 different colors in panels that vary in width between 6 to 36 feet. Originally, there was a programmed light system that pulsated light on the mural in a dynamic affect. Due to initial complaints, this system was dismantled shortly after it was installed, but completely re-installed and recreated when the mural was restored in 2012.. Color Fuses is an outdoor mural by architect Milton Glaser that wraps around the entire ground floor of the Minton-Capehart Federal Building in downtown Indianapolis, Indiana. While the building opened in 1975, the mural was finished in late 1974 and occupies the 672 feet around the entire portico of the building, rising 27 feet high, and showcasing 35 different colors in panels that vary in width between 6 to 36 feet. Originally, there was a programmed light system that pulsated light on the mural in a dynamic affect. Due to initial complaints, this system was dismantled shortly after it was installed, but completely re-installed and recreated when the mural was restored in 2012.. 
Joie de Vivre. Author Name: Mark di Suvero. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . Joie de Vivre (English: Joy of Life) is an outdoor sculpture by Mark di Suvero, located at Zuccotti Park in the Financial District of Lower Manhattan, New York City. The 70-foot sculpture, composed of "open-ended tetrahedrons", was installed by the intersection of Broadway and Cedar Street in June 2006 and was previously located at the Holland Tunnel rotary (also named St. John's Park).In October 2011, a man climbed Joie de Vivre, where he remained for several hours until he was escorted down by police.. Joie de Vivre (English: Joy of Life) is an outdoor sculpture by Mark di Suvero, located at Zuccotti Park in the Financial District of Lower Manhattan, New York City. The 70-foot sculpture, composed of "open-ended tetrahedrons", was installed by the intersection of Broadway and Cedar Street in June 2006 and was previously located at the Holland Tunnel rotary (also named St. John's Park). In October 2011, a man climbed Joie de Vivre, where he remained for several hours until he was escorted down by police.. 
Portrait of a Young Man with a Book. Author Name: Bronzino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . The Portrait of a Young Man with a Book is a c.1530s oil on board painting by Agnolo Bronzino. It probably shows a friend of the artist. It entered the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York in 1929, where it is still held.. The Portrait of a Young Man with a Book is a c.1530s oil on board painting by Agnolo Bronzino. It probably shows a friend of the artist. It entered the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York in 1929, where it is still held.. 
Takka Takka. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Takka Takka is a 1962 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein in his comic book style of using Ben-Day dots and a story panel. This work is held in the collection of the Museum Ludwig. The title comes from the onomatopoeic graphics that depict the sound that comes from a machine gun.. Takka Takka is a 1962 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein in his comic book style of using Ben-Day dots and a story panel. This work is held in the collection of the Museum Ludwig. The title comes from the onomatopoeic graphics that depict the sound that comes from a machine gun.. 
Magic Grove. Author Name: White, Nancy Metz. . . Magic Grove is a public art work by artist Nancy Metz White. It is located in Enderis Playfield, which is northwest of downtown Milwaukee, Wisconsin.. Magic Grove is a public art work by artist Nancy Metz White. It is located in Enderis Playfield, which is northwest of downtown Milwaukee, Wisconsin.. 
The Birth of Venus. Author Name: William-Adolphe Bouguereau. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Birth of Venus (French: La Naissance de Vénus) is one of the most famous paintings by 19th-century painter William-Adolphe Bouguereau. It depicts not the actual birth of Venus from the sea, but her transportation in a shell, as a fully mature woman, from the sea to Paphos in Cyprus. She is considered the epitome of the finest expressions of the Classical Greek and Roman ideal of the female form and beauty, on a par with Venus de Milo.. The Birth of Venus (French: La Naissance de Vénus) is one of the most famous paintings by 19th-century painter William-Adolphe Bouguereau. It depicts not the actual birth of Venus from the sea, but her transportation in a shell, as a fully mature woman, from the sea to Paphos in Cyprus. She is considered the epitome of the finest expressions of the Classical Greek and Roman ideal of the female form and beauty, on a par with Venus de Milo. For Bouguereau, it is considered a tour de force. The canvas stands at just over 9 ft 10 in (3.00 m) high, and 7 ft 2 in (2.18 m) wide. The subject matter, as well as the composition, resembles a previous rendition of this subject, Sandro Botticelli's The Birth of Venus, as well as Raphael's The Triumph of Galatea.. 
The Expulsion of Heliodorus from the Temple. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Expulsion of Heliodorus from the Temple is a fresco of the Italian renaissance painter Raphael. It was painted between 1511 and 1512 as part of Raphael's commission to decorate with frescoes the rooms that are now known as the Stanze di Raffaello, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. It is located in the room that takes its name from it, the Stanza di Eliodoro.. The Expulsion of Heliodorus from the Temple is a fresco of the Italian renaissance painter Raphael. It was painted between 1511 and 1512 as part of Raphael's commission to decorate with frescoes the rooms that are now known as the Stanze di Raffaello, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. It is located in the room that takes its name from it, the Stanza di Eliodoro. The Expulsion of Heliodorus from the Temple illustrates the biblical episode from 2 Maccabees (3:21-28). Heliodorus is ordered by Seleucus IV Philopator, the king of Syria, to seize the treasure preserved in the Temple in Jerusalem. Answering the prayers of the high priest Onias, God sends a horseman assisted by two youths to drive Heliodorus out. At the left, Raphael's patron, Julius II witnesses the scene from his litter. The money had been reserved for widows and orphans and a priest had seen and prayed and god sent down a horseman to drive him from the temple. The composition is divided into two halves, in the centre is the priest praying and the priest looks much like Julius II. On the right is the horseman fighting Heliodorus. The menorah by the priest in the centre shows that this is set BC and it's authentic. On the left are widows and orphans grouped together and Julius II is being carried on a throne, witnessing this event. The message of the fresco is “don’t steal from the church”. The architecture begs comparison with the school of Athens, although the Domes in “The Expulsion of Heliodorus from the Temple” are much richer and are gilded and highly decorated.. 
The Dream and Lie of Franco, The second sheet. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The Dream and Lie of Franco is a series of two sheets of prints, comprising 18 individual images, and an accompanying prose poem, by Pablo Picasso produced in 1937. The sheets each contain nine images arranged in a 3x3 grid. The first 14, in etching and aquatint, are dated 8 January 1937. The remaining four images were added to the second printing plate later, without use of aquatint, and dated June 7, 1937.. The Dream and Lie of Franco is a series of two sheets of prints, comprising 18 individual images, and an accompanying prose poem, by Pablo Picasso produced in 1937. The sheets each contain nine images arranged in a 3x3 grid. The first 14, in etching and aquatint, are dated 8 January 1937. The remaining four images were added to the second printing plate later, without use of aquatint, and dated June 7, 1937. The Dream and Lie of Franco is significant as Picasso's first overtly political work and prefigures his iconic political painting Guernica. The etchings satirise Spanish Generalísimo Francisco Franco's claim to represent and defend conservative Spanish culture and values by showing him in various ridiculous guises destroying Spain and its culture while the poem denounces "evil-omened polyps". Three of the four images added in June 1937 are directly related to studies for Guernica. The individual images were originally intended to be published as postcards to raise funds for the Spanish Republican government, and sold at the Spanish Pavilion of the 1937 World's Fair, although it is unclear whether any prints were made or sold in postcard format.[clarification needed] In his review of the etchings for The Spectator in October 1937, art historian (and member of the Cambridge Five spy-ring) Anthony Blunt complained that the work could not "reach more than the limited coterie of aesthetes". Critic and author John Golding on the other hand, claimed that "more than any other work by Picasso Dream and Lie of Franco breaks down, as the Surrealists so passionately longed to, distinctions between thought, writing and visual imagery.". 
Nighthawks. Author Name: Edward Hopper. . . Nighthawks is a 1942 oil on canvas painting by Edward Hopper that portrays people in a downtown diner late at night.It is Hopper's most famous work, and is one of the most recognizable paintings in American art. Within months of its completion, it was sold to the Art Institute of Chicago on May 13, 1942 for $3,000 and has remained there ever since.. Nighthawks is a 1942 oil on canvas painting by Edward Hopper that portrays people in a downtown diner late at night. It is Hopper's most famous work, and is one of the most recognizable paintings in American art. Within months of its completion, it was sold to the Art Institute of Chicago on May 13, 1942 for $3,000 and has remained there ever since.. 
Celebration. Author Name: Tyeb Mehta. . . Celebration is a triptych painting by Tyeb Mehta. It sold at Christie's for 15 million Indian rupees (US$300,000) in 2002, the highest price a contemporary Indian piece of art has ever sold for in a public auction.. Celebration is a triptych painting by Tyeb Mehta. It sold at Christie's for 15 million Indian rupees (US$300,000) in 2002, the highest price a contemporary Indian piece of art has ever sold for in a public auction.. 
Engagement Ring. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Engagement Ring is a 1961 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein. The work is based on the Winnie Winkle series, but Lichtenstein changed both the graphical description and the narrative accompaniment that he presents in a speech balloon. As with most of his early romance comics works, this consisted of "a boy and a girl connected by romantic dialogue and action".. Engagement Ring is a 1961 pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein. The work is based on the Winnie Winkle series, but Lichtenstein changed both the graphical description and the narrative accompaniment that he presents in a speech balloon. As with most of his early romance comics works, this consisted of "a boy and a girl connected by romantic dialogue and action".. 
Teodelapio. Author Name: Alexander "Sandy" Calder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstraction_(art). . Teodelapio is the only monumental stabile sculpture in Italy by Alexander Calder, site in Spoleto, designed and donated to the city for the 1962 edition of Festival dei Due Mondi. It was part of the open-air exhibition "Sculture in Città" (Sculptures in the city) organized by Giovanni Carandente.The sculpture had a long correspondence with Carandente about how to make it and where to place it. Starting from the idea of realizing a mobile, Calder chose to build a stabile.Carandente about the origin of the name of the sculpture:. Teodelapio is the only monumental stabile sculpture in Italy by Alexander Calder, site in Spoleto, designed and donated to the city for the 1962 edition of Festival dei Due Mondi. It was part of the open-air exhibition "Sculture in Città" (Sculptures in the city) organized by Giovanni Carandente. The sculpture had a long correspondence with Carandente about how to make it and where to place it. Starting from the idea of realizing a mobile, Calder chose to build a stabile. The sculpture is made of black painted steel and takes its name from that of a lombard king. Located in front of Spoleto's train station, it has become a symbol of the city. The model was sent to the Italsider factory in Savona where it was magnified 27 times and built in 11 cm-thick steel used for hulls, then brought to Spoleto where it was assembled and welded together. Carandente about the origin of the name of the sculpture:. 
Portrait of Lavinia Vecellio. Author Name: Titian. . . Portrait of Lavinia Vecellio is a c.1545 portrait by Tiziano Vecellio (Titian) of his daughter Lavinia.. Portrait of Lavinia Vecellio is a c.1545 portrait by Tiziano Vecellio (Titian) of his daughter Lavinia.. 
The Vortices of Wrath: Lebanon 1977. Author Name: Kanso, Nabil. . . The Vortices of Wrath (Lebanon 1977) is a triptych painted by Nabil Kanso in 1977. It is part of the Lebanon series began in 1975 in response to the Lebanese Civil War. The triptych is done in oil on canvas measuring 3×7.60 meters (10×25 feet). The center is 3×3 meters (10×10 feet) and each side 2.75×2.30 meters (9×7.5 feet).. The Vortices of Wrath (Lebanon 1977) is a triptych painted by Nabil Kanso in 1977. It is part of the Lebanon series began in 1975 in response to the Lebanese Civil War. The triptych is done in oil on canvas measuring 3×7.60 meters (10×25 feet). The center is 3×3 meters (10×10 feet) and each side 2.75×2.30 meters (9×7.5 feet).. 
Vault. Author Name: Robertson-Swann, Ron. . . Vault (popularly known as the Yellow Peril) is a public sculpture located in Melbourne, Australia. The work of sculptor Ron Robertson-Swann, Vault is an abstract, minimalist sculpture built of large thick flat polygonal sheets of prefabricated steel, assembled in a way that suggests dynamic movement. It is painted yellow.Presently located outside the Australian Centre for Contemporary Art, it is a key work in Melbourne's public art collection, and of considerable historical importance to the city.. Vault (popularly known as the Yellow Peril) is a public sculpture located in Melbourne, Australia. The work of sculptor Ron Robertson-Swann, Vault is an abstract, minimalist sculpture built of large thick flat polygonal sheets of prefabricated steel, assembled in a way that suggests dynamic movement. It is painted yellow. Presently located outside the Australian Centre for Contemporary Art, it is a key work in Melbourne's public art collection, and of considerable historical importance to the city. Vault has weathered much controversy throughout its existence. Commissioned by the Melbourne City Council after winning a competition in May 1978, for the newly built Melbourne City Square, the sculpture was not even built before it began to attract criticism from conservative media and council factions, on the grounds that its modern form was felt to be unsympathetic to the location. The cost of $70,000 was also felt to be excessive. The sculpture, which officially had no title until Robertson-Swann settled on Vault in September 1980, had previously referred to it as "The Thing"; the workmen who took more than eight weeks to construct it christened it "Steelhenge", was given the derogatory nickname "The Yellow Peril" by the newspapers, a name which has stuck. Installed in the City Square in May 1980, Vault lasted until December of that year, when its dismantling coincided with the State Government's sacking of the City Council. The Builders Labourers Federation consequently placed bans on further City Square work projects. Dr. Maurice White Director of Watirna Art Studio with partners John White and Kevin Bird were engaged to move the sculpture and in 1981 Vault was re-erected at Batman Park (named after John Batman) and remained there until 2002 when it was moved to the Australian Centre for Contemporary Art in Southbank.. 
The House of the Deaf Woman and the Belfry at Eragny. Author Name: Camille Pissarro. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The House of the Deaf Woman and the Belfry at Eragny is an 1886 oil painting by French artist Camille Pissarro, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It is a view of Pissarro's neighbor's yard in Eragny, created during his brief period of experimentation with pointillism.. The House of the Deaf Woman and the Belfry at Eragny is an 1886 oil painting by French artist Camille Pissarro, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It is a view of Pissarro's neighbor's yard in Eragny, created during his brief period of experimentation with pointillism.. 
Lady Caroline Howard. Author Name: Sir Joshua Reynolds. . . Lady Caroline Howard (1778) is an oil on canvas portrait by Joshua Reynolds. Lady Caroline was the daughter of Frederick Howard, 5th Earl of Carlisle, and Margaret Caroline Howard. She was a spirited child, according to her father, and was seven years old when she sat to Reynolds. The portrait was commissioned by the Earl, and exhibited in 1779 at the Royal Academy before it was hung in Castle Howard. Reynolds was a chief proponent of the Grand Manner and, to that end, the roses Lady Caroline plucks from an urn may have been intended to suggest Chastity, Beauty, and Love, the attributes of Venus and the Three Graces. The NGA writes "Reynolds has captured some of Lady Caroline's complexity in the serious, intent expression of her attractive face, her averted gaze, and the tension implied in. Lady Caroline Howard (1778) is an oil on canvas portrait by Joshua Reynolds. Lady Caroline was the daughter of Frederick Howard, 5th Earl of Carlisle, and Margaret Caroline Howard. She was a spirited child, according to her father, and was seven years old when she sat to Reynolds. The portrait was commissioned by the Earl, and exhibited in 1779 at the Royal Academy before it was hung in Castle Howard. Reynolds was a chief proponent of the Grand Manner and, to that end, the roses Lady Caroline plucks from an urn may have been intended to suggest Chastity, Beauty, and Love, the attributes of Venus and the Three Graces. The NGA writes "Reynolds has captured some of Lady Caroline's complexity in the serious, intent expression of her attractive face, her averted gaze, and the tension implied in her closed left hand ... the painting is broadly and fluidly executed in thick, opaque layers, with thin translucent glazes in the background." National Gallery of Art acquired the portrait in 1937.. 
Deposition from the Cross. Author Name: Blessed John of Fiesole, O.P.. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Deposition from the Cross is a painting of the Deposition of Christ by the Italian Renaissance master Fra Angelico, executed between 1432 and 1434. It is now housed in the National Museum of San Marco, Florence.Giorgio Vasari defined it to have been “painted by a saint or an angel”.Mary, wearing a dark dress, is showed in the traditional gesture of keeping hands joined.. The Deposition from the Cross is a painting of the Deposition of Christ by the Italian Renaissance master Fra Angelico, executed between 1432 and 1434. It is now housed in the National Museum of San Marco, Florence. Giorgio Vasari defined it to have been “painted by a saint or an angel”. Angelico intervened to complete this altarpiece when it had been already begun by Lorenzo Monaco for the Strozzi Chapel in the Florentine church of Santa Trinita. It portrays Christ supported by several people, with Mary Magdalene keeping his feet, as a symbol of human repention. A figure on the right, with a red hat, is showing the cross' nails and the horns crown, symbols of passion and sacrifice. Mary, wearing a dark dress, is showed in the traditional gesture of keeping hands joined.. 
Saint Bibiana. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Saint Bibiana is a sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. It sits in the high altar of the church of Santa Bibiana in Rome. Bernini received his first payment for the work in 1624, and his final payment in 1626. A seventeenth-century print of the statue exists in the Teylers Museum, Harlem, the Netherlands.. Saint Bibiana is a sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. It sits in the high altar of the church of Santa Bibiana in Rome. Bernini received his first payment for the work in 1624, and his final payment in 1626. A seventeenth-century print of the statue exists in the Teylers Museum, Harlem, the Netherlands.. 
White shift dress of Jean Shrimpton. Author Name: Jean Shrimpton. . . On 1965 Derby Day at Flemington Racecourse in Melbourne, Australia, English model Jean Shrimpton wore a white minidress that sparked controversy and was later described as a pivotal moment in women's fashion. The dress was made by Shrimpton's dressmaker, Colin Rolfe, and its hem was a daring 4 in (10 cm) above the knee because he had not been supplied with enough fabric to complete his and Shrimpton's intended design.. On 1965 Derby Day at Flemington Racecourse in Melbourne, Australia, English model Jean Shrimpton wore a white minidress that sparked controversy and was later described as a pivotal moment in women's fashion. The dress was made by Shrimpton's dressmaker, Colin Rolfe, and its hem was a daring 4 in (10 cm) above the knee because he had not been supplied with enough fabric to complete his and Shrimpton's intended design.. 
The Shrimp Girl. Author Name: William  Hogarth. . . The Shrimp Girl is a painting by the English artist William Hogarth. It was painted around 1740–45, and is held by the National Gallery, London.The painting, a relatively late work by Hogarth, is one of several in which he experimented with a loose, almost impressionistic style comparable to the work of Fragonard. In its subject matter, it resembles the prints of hawkers and traders popular in Hogarth's day.. The Shrimp Girl is a painting by the English artist William Hogarth. It was painted around 1740–45, and is held by the National Gallery, London. The painting, a relatively late work by Hogarth, is one of several in which he experimented with a loose, almost impressionistic style comparable to the work of Fragonard. In its subject matter, it resembles the prints of hawkers and traders popular in Hogarth's day. The painting depicts a woman selling shellfish on the streets of London, typically a job for the wives and daughters of fishmongers who owned stalls in markets such as Billingsgate. The subject balances a large basket on her head, bearing shrimps and mussels, together with a half-pint pewter pot as a measure. Its size suggests that it was intended as a portrait, rather than a sketch for a larger work. It is not strictly finished and was still in Hogarth's estate after his death. His widow Jane was said to have told visitors on showing the picture to them: "They say he could not paint flesh. There is flesh and blood for you." It was only sold after his wife's death in 1789, and first received its title The Shrimp Girl in a Christie's sale catalogue.. 
The Melody Haunts My Reverie. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . The Melody Haunts My Reverie is a 1965 screen printing by Roy Lichtenstein, referring to the 1927 song "Stardust" by Hoagy Carmichael (Lichtenstein loved jazz). The painting is housed in Housatonic Museum of Art and another copy signed by Lichtenstein is kept in Neuberger Museum of Art.. The Melody Haunts My Reverie is a 1965 screen printing by Roy Lichtenstein, referring to the 1927 song "Stardust" by Hoagy Carmichael (Lichtenstein loved jazz). The painting is housed in Housatonic Museum of Art and another copy signed by Lichtenstein is kept in Neuberger Museum of Art. The woman on the image, holding a microphone, was likened to modern character of Betty Draper from Mad Men. The painting was described as being among those that "don't lower art to the level of the comic strip but raise the comic strip to the level of high art". A version of The Melody Haunts My Reverie from 11 Pop Artists, Volume II was sold at Christie's for $17,250.. 
Titus as a Monk. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Titus as a Monk or Rembrandt's Son Titus in a Monk's Habit is a 1660 oil on canvas painting by the Dutch artist Rembrandt, showing his son Titus in the habit of a Franciscan monk. It is now in the collection of the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam.. Titus as a Monk or Rembrandt's Son Titus in a Monk's Habit is a 1660 oil on canvas painting by the Dutch artist Rembrandt, showing his son Titus in the habit of a Franciscan monk. It is now in the collection of the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam.. 
Present. Author Name: Robert Ingersoll Aitken. . . Present, also known as Future, is a 1935 outdoor sculpture by Robert Ingersoll Aitken, located in front of the National Archives Building in Washington, D.C., in the United States. John Russell Pope served as the sculpture's architect and Edward H. Ratti served as its carver. The sculpture is made of Indiana limestone and measures approximately 20 x 8 x 12 feet, with a base approximately 12 x 12 x 15 feet. Present is a companion piece to Past, also located in front of the National Archives Building.. Present, also known as Future, is a 1935 outdoor sculpture by Robert Ingersoll Aitken, located in front of the National Archives Building in Washington, D.C., in the United States. John Russell Pope served as the sculpture's architect and Edward H. Ratti served as its carver. The sculpture is made of Indiana limestone and measures approximately 20 x 8 x 12 feet, with a base approximately 12 x 12 x 15 feet. Present is a companion piece to Past, also located in front of the National Archives Building.. 
Untitled #96. Author Name: Cindy Sherman. . . Untitled #96 is a photograph made by American visual artist Cindy Sherman in 1981. It is known as part of her Centerfold series. In 2011, a print was auctioned for $3.89 million, making it the most expensive photograph ever sold at that time. It has since been surpassed by Rhein II.. Untitled #96 is a photograph made by American visual artist Cindy Sherman in 1981. It is known as part of her Centerfold series. In 2011, a print was auctioned for $3.89 million, making it the most expensive photograph ever sold at that time. It has since been surpassed by Rhein II.. 
The Choice of Hercules. Author Name: Annibale Carracci. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Choice of Hercules is a painting by the Italian Baroque painter Annibale Carracci. Dating from 1596, it is housed in the Capodimonte Gallery of Naples. The subject is the Choice of Hercules.Carracci, who was in Rome from the late 1595 or early 1596, was commissioned this work by Cardinal Odoardo Farnese for the ceiling of his camerino in his family's palace. In 1662 it was moved to the Farnese ducal seat in Parma. The work is considered one of Carracci's masterworks for its balanced rendering of a poetical ideal, graphically influenced by the artist's contact with Michelangelo's Sistine Chapel frescoes and Rome's classical remains, such as the Farnese Hercules or the Laocoon group.. The Choice of Hercules is a painting by the Italian Baroque painter Annibale Carracci. Dating from 1596, it is housed in the Capodimonte Gallery of Naples. The subject is the Choice of Hercules. Carracci, who was in Rome from the late 1595 or early 1596, was commissioned this work by Cardinal Odoardo Farnese for the ceiling of his camerino in his family's palace. In 1662 it was moved to the Farnese ducal seat in Parma. The work is considered one of Carracci's masterworks for its balanced rendering of a poetical ideal, graphically influenced by the artist's contact with Michelangelo's Sistine Chapel frescoes and Rome's classical remains, such as the Farnese Hercules or the Laocoon group. A vigorous and plastic Hercules is depicted with two women flanking him, who represent the opposite destinies which the life could reserve him: on the left the Virtue is calling him to the hardest path leading to glory through hardship, while the second, the Pleasure, the easier path, is enticing him to the vice. Behind Hercules is a palm, which, through the leaves and the branches (a symbol of military victory and fame), hints to Hercules' future heroic life.. 
Falling Autumn Leaves. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Fall of Leaves (original French title: Chûte de feuillus), or Falling Autumn Leaves is a pair of paintings (in French pendants, i. e. counterparts) by the Dutch painter Vincent van Gogh executed during the two months at the end of 1888 that his artist friend Paul Gauguin spent with him at The Yellow House in Arles, France.. Fall of Leaves (original French title: Chûte de feuillus), or Falling Autumn Leaves is a pair of paintings (in French pendants, i. e. counterparts) by the Dutch painter Vincent van Gogh executed during the two months at the end of 1888 that his artist friend Paul Gauguin spent with him at The Yellow House in Arles, France.. 
The Antwerp Crucifixion. Author Name: Antonello da Messina. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Crucifixion is the subject of three different paintings by the Italian Renaissance master Antonello da Messina; the first two were completed around 1454/1455, the third in 1475. They are housed in the Brukenthal National Museum (Sibiu, Romania); the Royal Museum of Fine Arts of Antwerp (Antwerp, Belgium) and in the National Gallery (London, UK), respectively.. The Crucifixion is the subject of three different paintings by the Italian Renaissance master Antonello da Messina; the first two were completed around 1454/1455, the third in 1475. They are housed in the Brukenthal National Museum (Sibiu, Romania); the Royal Museum of Fine Arts of Antwerp (Antwerp, Belgium) and in the National Gallery (London, UK), respectively.. 
Sleeping Hermaphroditus. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Sleeping Hermaphroditus is an ancient marble sculpture depicting Hermaphroditus life size, reclining on a mattress sculpted by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini in 1620. The form is partly derived from ancient portrayals of Venus and other female nudes, and partly from contemporaneous feminised Hellenistic portrayals of Dionysus/Bacchus. It represents a subject that was much repeated in Hellenistic times and in ancient Rome, to judge from the number of versions that have survived. Discovered at Santa Maria della Vittoria, Rome, the Sleeping Hermaphroditus was immediately claimed by Cardinal Scipione Borghese and became part of the Borghese Collection. The "Borghese Hermaphroditus" was later sold to the occupying French and was moved to The Louvre, where it is on display today.. The Sleeping Hermaphroditus is an ancient marble sculpture depicting Hermaphroditus life size, reclining on a mattress sculpted by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini in 1620. The form is partly derived from ancient portrayals of Venus and other female nudes, and partly from contemporaneous feminised Hellenistic portrayals of Dionysus/Bacchus. It represents a subject that was much repeated in Hellenistic times and in ancient Rome, to judge from the number of versions that have survived. Discovered at Santa Maria della Vittoria, Rome, the Sleeping Hermaphroditus was immediately claimed by Cardinal Scipione Borghese and became part of the Borghese Collection. The "Borghese Hermaphroditus" was later sold to the occupying French and was moved to The Louvre, where it is on display today. The Sleeping Hermaphroditus has been described as a good early Imperial Roman copy of a bronze original by the later of the two Hellenistic sculptors named Polycles (working ca 155 BC); the original bronze was mentioned in Pliny's Natural History.. 
The Rocky Mountains. Author Name: Albert Bierstadt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Hudson_River_School. . The Rocky Mountains is an 1866 oil on canvas painting by a German-American painter Albert Bierstadt, a painter of Westward Expansion scenes in the latter 19th century. It is a landscape painted in a Luminist style.[citation needed]. The Rocky Mountains is an 1866 oil on canvas painting by a German-American painter Albert Bierstadt, a painter of Westward Expansion scenes in the latter 19th century. It is a landscape painted in a Luminist style.[citation needed]. 
Le génie du mal. Author Name: Guillaume Geefs. . Author Movement: synthesis of Late Flemish Baroque, Neoclassicism, Romanticism, Realism. . Le génie du mal (installed 1848) or The Genius of Evil, known informally in English as Lucifer or The Lucifer of Liège, is a religious sculpture executed in white marble by the Belgian artist Guillaume Geefs. Francophone art historians most often refer to the figure as an ange déchu, a "fallen angel." It is located within the elaborate pulpit (French chaire de vérité, "seat of truth") of St. Paul's Cathedral, Liège, and depicts a classically beautiful man in his physical prime, chained, seated, and nearly nude but for drapery gathered over his thighs, his full length ensconced within a mandorla of bat wings. Geefs' work replaces an earlier sculpture created for the space by his younger brother Joseph Geefs (L'ange du mal) which was removed from the cathedral because of its distracting allu. Le génie du mal (installed 1848) or The Genius of Evil, known informally in English as Lucifer or The Lucifer of Liège, is a religious sculpture executed in white marble by the Belgian artist Guillaume Geefs. Francophone art historians most often refer to the figure as an ange déchu, a "fallen angel." It is located within the elaborate pulpit (French chaire de vérité, "seat of truth") of St. Paul's Cathedral, Liège, and depicts a classically beautiful man in his physical prime, chained, seated, and nearly nude but for drapery gathered over his thighs, his full length ensconced within a mandorla of bat wings. Geefs' work replaces an earlier sculpture created for the space by his younger brother Joseph Geefs (L'ange du mal) which was removed from the cathedral because of its distracting allure and "unhealthy beauty." In the late 1980s, a photograph of Le génie du mal became a focal point of Himmelsweg, an art installation by the Liège-born artist Jacques Charlier on the theme of seductive evil and the danger of obscuring the memory of the Holocaust.. 
The Jolly Toper. Author Name: Judith Leyster. . . The Jolly Toper is an oil painting by Judith Leyster in the collection of the Rijksmuseum that is on long term loan to the Frans Hals Museum since 1959. It was acquired by the museum as a painting by Frans Hals and was attributed to Leyster by the researcher Juliane Harms in 1927.. The Jolly Toper is an oil painting by Judith Leyster in the collection of the Rijksmuseum that is on long term loan to the Frans Hals Museum since 1959. It was acquired by the museum as a painting by Frans Hals and was attributed to Leyster by the researcher Juliane Harms in 1927.. 
Needle Tower. Author Name: Kenneth Snelson. . . Needle Tower is a public artwork by American sculptor Kenneth Snelson located outside of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in Washington, DC, United States.. Needle Tower is a public artwork by American sculptor Kenneth Snelson located outside of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in Washington, DC, United States.. 
Laughing Boy. Author Name: Frans Hals. . . Laughing Boy (Dutch: Lachende jongen) is a circular oil-on-panel painting by the Dutch artist Frans Hals. It belongs to the tronie genre and was painted around 1625. It is in the collection of the Mauritshuis.Other boys painted by Hals in round tondos:. Laughing Boy (Dutch: Lachende jongen) is a circular oil-on-panel painting by the Dutch artist Frans Hals. It belongs to the tronie genre and was painted around 1625. It is in the collection of the Mauritshuis. Another circular portrait with a laughing boy is in the collection of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art and shows a soap bubble on the right. A third version exists where the boy is grasping a whistle or flute. Several other circular portraits of laughing boys, all painted around the same period, with or without a bubble or a whistle, have been attributed to Hals in the past. Of the twenty or so paintings identified in 1974 by the Hals expert Seymour Slive, he considered only three to be authentic. The Hals expert Claus Grimm rejected the other two and claims only this one is authentic. In his own time, Hals' works were copied by art students. In the late 19th century young artists in the impressionist movement were impressed by the loose brush strokes and wet-in-wet painting technique of these small tondos, and it is possible that a few of the many copies on the art market today date from this later period. Other boys painted by Hals in round tondos:. 
Portrait of Maria Trip. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Portrait of Maria Trip (c.1639) is an oil on panel painting by the Dutch landscape painter Rembrandt.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Rijksmuseum.This painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1915, who wrote; "845. A YOUNG WOMAN AT A STONE BALUSTRADE. Bode 19 ; Dut. 283 ; Wb. 352 ; B.-HdG. 274. About thirty-five. Half-length ; life size. She stands, inclined to the left, and looks at the spectator. She holds her fan in her left hand, which rests on the balustrade. Her brown hair is uncovered and falls in ringlets on her brow. Her figured black silk gown is cut out at the throat and trimmed with rosettes ; over it is a triple collar of rich lace, lying flat. She has rich pearls in her ears, on her bosom, round her neck, and on her wris. Portrait of Maria Trip (c.1639) is an oil on panel painting by the Dutch landscape painter Rembrandt.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Rijksmuseum. This painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1915, who wrote; "845. A YOUNG WOMAN AT A STONE BALUSTRADE. Bode 19 ; Dut. 283 ; Wb. 352 ; B.-HdG. 274. About thirty-five. Half-length ; life size. She stands, inclined to the left, and looks at the spectator. She holds her fan in her left hand, which rests on the balustrade. Her brown hair is uncovered and falls in ringlets on her brow. Her figured black silk gown is cut out at the throat and trimmed with rosettes ; over it is a triple collar of rich lace, lying flat. She has rich pearls in her ears, on her bosom, round her neck, and on her wrists. A small jewelled medallion is suspended from a black ribbon. Her right hand hangs at her side. She stands in front of a recess with a caryatid to the left ; behind her is a dark curtain. Full daylight falls from the front. Corrections are visible on the lower edge, where there was once a table, and there were large buttons on the left sleeve. Signed on the left at foot, "Rembrandt f. 1639"; cedar panel, 42 inches by 32 inches. A carefully executed pen-sketch for this picture is in the British Museum Print Room ; reproduced, HdG. iv. 88. Etched by L. Flameng in the Gazette des Beaux-Arts, and in Dutuit, iii. Mentioned by Vosmaer, pp. 170, 520; Bode, pp. 459, 559; Dutuit, p. 54; Michel, pp. 213, 565 [163-4, 440]. Exhibited at Amsterdam, 1872 and 1898, No. 44; Brussels, 1882, No. 216 ; The Hague, 1890, No. 85 ; Utrecht, 1894, No. 417. In the Van Weede van Dijkveld collection, Utrecht. Exhibited on loan since 1896 in the Rijksmuseum, Amsterdam, 1911 catalogue, No. 2022.". The painting was researched by Isa van Eeghen in the 20th-century who discovered that it was a portrait of Maria Trip, the wife of Balthasar Coymans.. 
Crucifix. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Two different crucifixes, or strictly wooden corpus figures for crucifixes, are attributed to the High Renaissance master Michelangelo, although neither is universally accepted as his. Both are relatively small figures which would have been produced in Michelangelo's youth.. Two different crucifixes, or strictly wooden corpus figures for crucifixes, are attributed to the High Renaissance master Michelangelo, although neither is universally accepted as his. Both are relatively small figures which would have been produced in Michelangelo's youth.. 
Presentation at the Temple. Author Name: Andrea Mantegna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Presentation at the Temple is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Andrea Mantegna. Dating to c. 1455, it is housed in the Gemäldegalerie, Berlin, Germany.. The Presentation at the Temple is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Andrea Mantegna. Dating to c. 1455, it is housed in the Gemäldegalerie, Berlin, Germany.. 
Wolfeboro I. Author Name: Frank Stella. . Author Movement: Modernism, Minimal art, Abstract expressionism, Geometric abstraction, Abstract Illusionism, Lyrical abstraction, Hard-edge painting, Shaped canvas painting, Color field painting. . Wolfeboro I is a 1966 abstract painting by Frank Stella. It is currently in the collection of the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art.. Wolfeboro I is a 1966 abstract painting by Frank Stella. It is currently in the collection of the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art.. 
Northeaster. Author Name: Winslow Homer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Northeaster is one of several paintings on marine subjects by the late-19th-century American painter Winslow Homer. Like The Fog Warning and Breezing Up, he created it during his time in Maine. It is on display in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. Viewers are presented a struggle of elements between the sea and the rocky shore. Winslow Homer excelled in painting landscape paintings that depicted seascapes and mountain scenery.. Northeaster is one of several paintings on marine subjects by the late-19th-century American painter Winslow Homer. Like The Fog Warning and Breezing Up, he created it during his time in Maine. It is on display in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. Viewers are presented a struggle of elements between the sea and the rocky shore. Winslow Homer excelled in painting landscape paintings that depicted seascapes and mountain scenery.. 
Extreme Unction. Author Name: Nicolas Poussin. . Author Movement: Baroque. . Extreme Unction (or ‘Final Anointing’) is one of a set of seven scenes representing the sacraments of the Catholic Church, painted between 1638 and 1640 by the French artist Nicolas Poussin (1594–1665).Death remains one of the last great taboos in much of the developed world. Poussin’s painting addresses with potency and directness the universal message of human mortality: through the rhythmic beauty of the compositional line and passages of resplendent, even joyous, colour, Poussin allows us to contemplate and engage with the most natural and inevitable of events in human existence.. Extreme Unction (or ‘Final Anointing’) is one of a set of seven scenes representing the sacraments of the Catholic Church, painted between 1638 and 1640 by the French artist Nicolas Poussin (1594–1665). Commissioned in Rome by the renowned connoisseur Cassiano dal Pozzo, the scene depicts a dying man being anointed with oil in accordance with the rites of the early Roman church. To enhance the realism of the scene, Poussin drew on his extensive study of the art and artefacts of classical antiquity to represent the costumes, setting, and the structure of the painting itself, with the figures disposed frieze-like across the composition. This classicising tendency went on to make an inestimable impact on Western art, influencing many of the greatest painters of subsequent generations, from Jacques-Louis David and Ingres to Cézanne and Picasso; even today artists continue to be inspired by Poussin’s work and ideas about painting. In treating themes of death and dying, Poussin revealed himself at his most ambitious, consciously pitting himself against no less an artist than the ancient Greek painter Apelles who was, Poussin wrote, ‘[much] pleased ... to represent scenes of death.’ Today, the sobriety and control of Poussin’s paintings can seem difficult, or remote, to audiences. But in Extreme Unction subject and style are so perfectly aligned that Poussin’s stark, lyrical, line, and controlled play of light and shadow bring out the full depth of emotion that marks this momentous scene. Death remains one of the last great taboos in much of the developed world. Poussin’s painting addresses with potency and directness the universal message of human mortality: through the rhythmic beauty of the compositional line and passages of resplendent, even joyous, colour, Poussin allows us to contemplate and engage with the most natural and inevitable of events in human existence.. 
Portrait of Baldassare Castiglione. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Portrait of Baldassare Castiglione is a c. 1514–1515 oil painting attributed to the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael. Considered one of the great portraits of the Renaissance, it has an enduring influence. It depicts Raphael's friend, the diplomat and humanist Baldassare Castiglione, who is considered a quintessential example of the High Renaissance gentleman.Now in the Louvre, the painting was acquired by Louis XIV in 1661 from the heirs of Cardinal Mazarin.. Portrait of Baldassare Castiglione is a c. 1514–1515 oil painting attributed to the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael. Considered one of the great portraits of the Renaissance, it has an enduring influence. It depicts Raphael's friend, the diplomat and humanist Baldassare Castiglione, who is considered a quintessential example of the High Renaissance gentleman. The portrait was produced as a result of Raphael's friendship with Castiglione, whose ascent in courtly circles paralleled that of the artist. They were close friends by 1504, when Castiglione made his second visit to Urbino, as Raphael was gaining recognition as an artist in the humanist circle of the city's ducal court. Raphael was commissioned by Guidobaldo da Montefeltro in 1505 to paint a picture for Henry VII; Castiglione traveled to England to present the finished painting to the king. It is possible that Castiglione later served as a "scholarly advisor" for Raphael's The School of Athens, and that the depiction of Zoroaster in that fresco may be a portrait of the courtier. Portrait of Baldassare Castiglione may have had a practical and intimate purpose. Castiglione left his family behind when he went to Rome, and he wrote a poem in which he imagined his wife and son consoling themselves with the picture during his absence. The composition is pyramidal. It was originally painted on a wood panel, and later transferred to canvas. Copies produced in the 17th century show Castiglione's hands in full, suggesting that the picture was subsequently cut by several inches at the bottom. Castiglione is seated against an earth-toned background and wears a dark doublet with a trim of squirrel fur and black ribbon; on his head is a turban topped by a notched beret. The attire indicates that this was painted during the winter, likely that of 1514–1515, when Castiglione was in Rome by appointment of Guidobaldo da Montefeltro to Pope Leo X. The lightest areas are the subject's face seen nearly head-on, a billow of white shirt front at his chest, and his folded hands, which are mostly cropped at the bottom edge of the canvas. Castiglione is seen as vulnerable, possessing a humane sensitivity characteristic of Raphael's later portraits. The soft contours of his clothing and rounded beard express the subtlety of the subject's personality. In his The Book of the Courtier Castiglione argued on behalf of the cultivation of fine manners and dress. He popularized the term sprezzatura, which translates roughly to "nonchalant mastery", an ideal of effortless grace befitting a man of culture. The concept eventually found its way into English literature, in the plays of Ben Jonson and William Shakespeare. The picture's elegance of execution is consistent with the attitude of the subject. Art historian Lawrence Gowing noted the counter-intuitive handling of gray velvet as contrary to an academic modeling of form, with the broad surfaces banked in rich darkness and the fabric shining most brightly as it turns away from the light. For Gowing, "The picture has the subtlety of baroque observation but the stillness and noble contour of classic painting at its peak." The portrait's composition and atmospheric quality suggest an homage to the Mona Lisa, which Raphael would have seen in Rome. Yet the Castiglione portrait transcends questions of influence; art historian James Beck wrote that "The Portrait of Baldassare Castiglione stands as a final solution for single male portraiture within the Renaissance style...." Notwithstanding shifts in the critical appraisal of Raphael's work, the painting has enjoyed consistent admiration from other artists. Titian was strongly influenced by this portrait, and may have first viewed it in Castiglione's home in Mantua. The Venetian master's Portrait of a Man (Tommaso Mosti?) is generally seen as owing a strong compositional debt to Raphael's painting, and also reflects Castiglione's influential advice regarding the restrained elegance of attire recommended for courtiers. In 1639 Rembrandt drew a sketch of the painting while it was being auctioned in Amsterdam, and subsequently referenced the composition in several self-portraits. A copy of the painting, now in the Courtauld Institute of Art, was painted by Peter Paul Rubens. Both Rembrandt's and Rubens's versions display Baroque flourish, quite different from the original painting's sober restraint. In the 19th century Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres chose a frame for his Portrait of Monsieur Bertin much like that which adorned Raphael's painting, perhaps indicating Ingres's ambitions, while also underscoring the paintings' similarities of coloration and extraordinary illusionism. At the turn of the 20th century Henri Matisse copied the painting, and Paul Cézanne exclaimed of Raphael's portrait: "How well rounded the forehead is, with all the distinct planes. How well balanced the patches in the unity of the whole...." Now in the Louvre, the painting was acquired by Louis XIV in 1661 from the heirs of Cardinal Mazarin.. 
Beneficence. Author Name: Daniel Chester French. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/American_Renaissance. . Beneficence is a bronze statue on the campus of Ball State University, located in Muncie, Indiana. The statue is referred to as Benny by students.. Beneficence is a bronze statue on the campus of Ball State University, located in Muncie, Indiana. The statue is referred to as Benny by students.. 
Arii Matamoe. Author Name: Paul Gauguin. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Arii Matamoe, also titled The Royal End (French: La Fin royale) is a painting on coarse cloth by the French artist Paul Gauguin, created in 1892 during the painter's first visit to Tahiti. It depicts a man's severed head on a pillow, displayed before mourners, and although it did not depict a common or contemporary Tahitian mourning ritual, may have been inspired by the death of Pōmare V in 1891 shortly after Gauguin's arrival. A curator for the J. Paul Getty Museum suggested Gauguin likely painted the canvas "to shock Parisians" upon his expected return to the city.. Arii Matamoe, also titled The Royal End (French: La Fin royale) is a painting on coarse cloth by the French artist Paul Gauguin, created in 1892 during the painter's first visit to Tahiti. It depicts a man's severed head on a pillow, displayed before mourners, and although it did not depict a common or contemporary Tahitian mourning ritual, may have been inspired by the death of Pōmare V in 1891 shortly after Gauguin's arrival. A curator for the J. Paul Getty Museum suggested Gauguin likely painted the canvas "to shock Parisians" upon his expected return to the city.. 
Self-portrait as the Apostle Paul. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Self-portrait as the Apostle Paul (Dutch: Zelfportret als de apostel Paulus) is a 1661 self-portrait by the Dutch artist Rembrandt. It is now in the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam.. Self-portrait as the Apostle Paul (Dutch: Zelfportret als de apostel Paulus) is a 1661 self-portrait by the Dutch artist Rembrandt. It is now in the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam.. 
The First Game. Author Name: Arnold Friberg. . . The First Game is a painting by Arnold Friberg, and was commissioned in 1968 by Chevrolet Motor Division as one of four paintings to commemorate the then-upcoming centennial celebration of college football in the United States. It depicts the famous first game of American intercollegiate football, played by Rutgers College (now Rutgers University) and the visiting College of New Jersey (now Princeton University) on November 6, 1869 at College Field in New Brunswick, New Jersey.. The First Game is a painting by Arnold Friberg, and was commissioned in 1968 by Chevrolet Motor Division as one of four paintings to commemorate the then-upcoming centennial celebration of college football in the United States. It depicts the famous first game of American intercollegiate football, played by Rutgers College (now Rutgers University) and the visiting College of New Jersey (now Princeton University) on November 6, 1869 at College Field in New Brunswick, New Jersey. The game was played in front of approximately 100 spectators, including a Rutgers professor who is reported to have waved his umbrella at the participants while yelling, "you will come to no Christian end!" Friberg included the man with the umbrella in the painting as a tribute.. 
Ecce Homo. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . Ecce Homo is a painting by the Netherlandish painter Hieronymus Bosch or a follower, made in the 1490s. It depicts the presentation of Jesus Christ by Pontius Pilate to the throngs of Jerusalem. This painting is at the Indianapolis Museum of Art in Indianapolis, Indiana; it is closely similar to one at the Philadelphia Museum of Art.They are not to be confused with the 1470s Bosch painting of the same name.. Ecce Homo is a painting by the Netherlandish painter Hieronymus Bosch or a follower, made in the 1490s. It depicts the presentation of Jesus Christ by Pontius Pilate to the throngs of Jerusalem. This painting is at the Indianapolis Museum of Art in Indianapolis, Indiana; it is closely similar to one at the Philadelphia Museum of Art. They are not to be confused with the 1470s Bosch painting of the same name.. 
Draped Seated Woman 1957–58. Author Name: Henry Moore. . Author Movement: Bronze Sculpture, Modernism. . Draped Seated Woman 1957–58 (LH 428) is a bronze sculpture by the British artist Henry Moore, made in a series of six castings in the 1950s. The sculpture depicts a female figure resting in a seated position, with her legs folded back to her right, her left hand supporting her weight, and her right hand on her right leg. The drapery emphasises the female figure, but the facial features are abstracted and barely picked out.. Draped Seated Woman 1957–58 (LH 428) is a bronze sculpture by the British artist Henry Moore, made in a series of six castings in the 1950s. The sculpture depicts a female figure resting in a seated position, with her legs folded back to her right, her left hand supporting her weight, and her right hand on her right leg. The drapery emphasises the female figure, but the facial features are abstracted and barely picked out.. 
Badia Polyptych. Author Name: Bondone, Giotto Di. . Author Movement: Proto-Renaissance. . The Badia Polyptych (Italian: Polittico di Badia) is a painting by the Italian artist Giotto, painted around 1300 and housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence.. The Badia Polyptych (Italian: Polittico di Badia) is a painting by the Italian artist Giotto, painted around 1300 and housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence.. 
Champ de blé vert avec cyprès. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Green Wheat Field with Cypress (French: Champ de blé vert avec cyprès) is an oil on canvas painting by a Dutch post-Impressionist painter Vincent van Gogh. It was completed in 1889 and is based on Post-Impressionism style by use of landscape painting genre. The dimensions of the painting is 92.5 by 73.5 centimeters and is housed at National Gallery, Prague, Czech Republic.. Green Wheat Field with Cypress (French: Champ de blé vert avec cyprès) is an oil on canvas painting by a Dutch post-Impressionist painter Vincent van Gogh. It was completed in 1889 and is based on Post-Impressionism style by use of landscape painting genre. The dimensions of the painting is 92.5 by 73.5 centimeters and is housed at National Gallery, Prague, Czech Republic.. 
Crucifixion between Sts. Jerome and Christopher. Author Name: Bernardino Pinturicchio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Crucifixion between Sts. Jerome and Christopher is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Pinturicchio, painted around 1481 and housed in the Borghese Gallery of Rome, Italy.It is one of the earliest known works by the Umbrian painter, after some of the panel of the Histories of San Bernardino (1473).. The Crucifixion between Sts. Jerome and Christopher is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Pinturicchio, painted around 1481 and housed in the Borghese Gallery of Rome, Italy. It is one of the earliest known works by the Umbrian painter, after some of the panel of the Histories of San Bernardino (1473).. 
Young Knight in a Landscape. Author Name: Vittore Carpaccio. . . Young Knight in a Landscape, or Portrait of a Knight, is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Vittore Carpaccio, now in the Thyssen-Bornemisza Collection in Madrid. Dated 1510, this is the earliest full-length portrait in Western painting - on the assumption that it is a portrait, as seems likely. It is characteristic of Carpaccio that apart from this important innovation, the style of the work seems in other respects to look back to the previous century. From some date until the 20th century the painting had been given the monogram of Albrecht Dürer, and Carpaccio's signature overpainted. The realism and detail of Carpaccio does in fact show Northern influence.. Young Knight in a Landscape, or Portrait of a Knight, is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Vittore Carpaccio, now in the Thyssen-Bornemisza Collection in Madrid. Dated 1510, this is the earliest full-length portrait in Western painting - on the assumption that it is a portrait, as seems likely. It is characteristic of Carpaccio that apart from this important innovation, the style of the work seems in other respects to look back to the previous century. From some date until the 20th century the painting had been given the monogram of Albrecht Dürer, and Carpaccio's signature overpainted. The realism and detail of Carpaccio does in fact show Northern influence. For centuries the identity of the knight has been a subject of discussion among the most renowned art historians, including Bernard Berenson and Lionello Venturi. The portrait is now considered most likely to show Francesco Maria I della Rovere, the Duke of Urbino and nephew of Pope Julius II, during whose reign it was painted. Nevertheless, a more recent interpretation identifies the knight as the Venetian patrician Marco Gabriel, who was rector of the fortress of Methoni, in Greece, during the Ottoman siege of 1500. His family would have commissioned the painting as a tribute to his memory, as, being the only Venetian survivor of the siege, he had been accused of cowardice. Taken by the Ottomans to Constantinople, he was beheaded there on 4 November 1501. The painting shows a young knight, surrounded by a rather crowded series of symbols. The heron caught in the sky by a hawk might hint at this knight's death in battle, also alluded to by his posture, which recalls that of a funerary statue; an alternative theory is that this is a memorial portrait of a person already dead. The other knight with a lance might then be the same person during his life. In the left lower corner is a white ermine and a scroll stating "I prefer to die rather than to incur dishonour" (malo mori quam foedari). The symbolism of these and the other animals and plants have been much discussed by art historians. The painting was sold by the heirs of the American collector Otto Kahn after his death and bought by Heinrich Thyssen in 1935.. 
Divan Japonais. Author Name: Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Art_Nouveau. . Divan Japonais is a lithograph poster by French artist Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec. It was created to advertise a café-chantant that was at the time known as Divan Japonais. The poster depicts three persons from the Montmartre of Toulouse-Lautrec's time. Dancer Jane Avril is in the audience. Beside her is writer Édouard Dujardin. They are watching a performance by Yvette Guilbert. Though her face is not included in the poster, she is recognizable by her tall, thin frame and long black gloves.. Divan Japonais is a lithograph poster by French artist Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec. It was created to advertise a café-chantant that was at the time known as Divan Japonais. The poster depicts three persons from the Montmartre of Toulouse-Lautrec's time. Dancer Jane Avril is in the audience. Beside her is writer Édouard Dujardin. They are watching a performance by Yvette Guilbert. Though her face is not included in the poster, she is recognizable by her tall, thin frame and long black gloves.. 
The Peasant and the Nest Robber. Author Name: Pieter Bruegel the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_and_Flemish_Renaissance_painting. . The Peasant and the Nest Robber (also The Peasant and the Birdnester) is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in 1568. It is currently held and exhibited at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna.. The Peasant and the Nest Robber (also The Peasant and the Birdnester) is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in 1568. It is currently held and exhibited at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna.. 
Lady Seated at a Virginal. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . Lady Seated at a Virginal, also known as Young Woman Seated at a Virginal, is a genre painting created by Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer in about 1670–72 and now in the National Gallery, London.. Lady Seated at a Virginal, also known as Young Woman Seated at a Virginal, is a genre painting created by Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer in about 1670–72 and now in the National Gallery, London.. 
The Takovo Uprising. Author Name: Paja Jovanović. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Takovski ustanak (English: The Takovo Uprising) is an oil painting by Paja Jovanović which depicts rebel leader Miloš Obrenović inciting his countrymen against the Turks and initiating the Second Serbian Uprising in 1815. The art historian Lilien Filipovitch-Robinson identifies it as one of Jovanović's finest works.. Takovski ustanak (English: The Takovo Uprising) is an oil painting by Paja Jovanović which depicts rebel leader Miloš Obrenović inciting his countrymen against the Turks and initiating the Second Serbian Uprising in 1815. The art historian Lilien Filipovitch-Robinson identifies it as one of Jovanović's finest works. Painted in 1888, the first version measures 125.5 by 190 centimetres (49.4 by 74.8 in). Prior to its creation, Jovanović studied authentic costumes and armaments from the time of the uprising, visited Takovo and sketched the church and large tree under which Obrenović incited the people. Jovanović also studied the facial features of locals and sketched them, and so some of their faces appear in the painting. Jovanović composed two versions, the first of which was displayed in 1889 and donated to the National Museum of Serbia by its original buyer, who had acquired the reproductive rights. Lithographic reproductions were soon made widely available, and distributed by the Serbian Ministry of Education in secondary schools, teachers' schools, and seminaries. Jovanović created a second, smaller version of the painting specially for Serbia's King Alexander in 1898.. 
Monument to Lenin. Author Name: Kerbel, Lev. . . The year 1985 was marked by many events that left an imprint on the history of Soviet and Russian Fine Arts.. The year 1985 was marked by many events that left an imprint on the history of Soviet and Russian Fine Arts.. 
A Visit from the Old Mistress. Author Name: Winslow Homer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . A Visit from the Old Mistress is an 1876 painting by American artist Winslow Homer. It was one of several works that Homer created during a mid-1870s visit to Virginia, where he had served as a war correspondent during the Civil War. Scholars have noted that the painting's composition is taken from Homer's earlier painting Prisoners from the Front, which depicts a group of captive confederate soldiers defiantly regarding a union officer. It, along with Homer's other paintings of black southern life from this period, have been praised as an "invaluable record of an important segment of life in Virginia during the Reconstruction.". A Visit from the Old Mistress is an 1876 painting by American artist Winslow Homer. It was one of several works that Homer created during a mid-1870s visit to Virginia, where he had served as a war correspondent during the Civil War. Scholars have noted that the painting's composition is taken from Homer's earlier painting Prisoners from the Front, which depicts a group of captive confederate soldiers defiantly regarding a union officer. It, along with Homer's other paintings of black southern life from this period, have been praised as an "invaluable record of an important segment of life in Virginia during the Reconstruction.". 
Cashmere. Author Name: John Singer Sargent. . . Cashmere (French: cachemire) is an oil on canvas painting by an American artist and the leading portrait painter John Singer Sargent. It was completed in c.1908 and is based on Realism style by use of painting genre. The dimensions of the painting is 71.1 by 109.2 centimeters and is housed in a private collection.. Cashmere (French: cachemire) is an oil on canvas painting by an American artist and the leading portrait painter John Singer Sargent. It was completed in c.1908 and is based on Realism style by use of painting genre. The dimensions of the painting is 71.1 by 109.2 centimeters and is housed in a private collection.. 
Joseph and Potiphar's Wife. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Joseph and Potiphar's Wife is a 1634 etching by Rembrandt (Bartsch 39). It depicts a story from the Bible, wherein Potiphar's Wife attempts to seduce Joseph. It is signed and dated "Rembrandt f. 1634" (f. for fecit or "made this"), and exists in two states.. Joseph and Potiphar's Wife is a 1634 etching by Rembrandt (Bartsch 39). It depicts a story from the Bible, wherein Potiphar's Wife attempts to seduce Joseph. It is signed and dated "Rembrandt f. 1634" (f. for fecit or "made this"), and exists in two states.. 
Dancing Fairies. Author Name: August Malmström. . . Dancing Fairies (Swedish: Älvalek) is a painting by the Swedish painter August Malmström (1829–1901). The painting depicts fairies dancing above the water, in a moonlit landscape.. Dancing Fairies (Swedish: Älvalek) is a painting by the Swedish painter August Malmström (1829–1901). The painting depicts fairies dancing above the water, in a moonlit landscape.. 
Impression, soleil levant. Author Name: Claude Monet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Impression, Sunrise (French: Impression, soleil levant) is a painting by Claude Monet. Shown at what would later be known as the "Exhibition of the Impressionists" in April 1874, the painting is attributed to giving rise to the name of the Impressionist movement. Impression, Sunrise depicts the port of Le Havre, Monet's hometown, and is his most famous painting of the harbor.. Impression, Sunrise (French: Impression, soleil levant) is a painting by Claude Monet. Shown at what would later be known as the "Exhibition of the Impressionists" in April 1874, the painting is attributed to giving rise to the name of the Impressionist movement. Impression, Sunrise depicts the port of Le Havre, Monet's hometown, and is his most famous painting of the harbor.. 
Two Open Rectangles, Excentric, Variation VI. Author Name: George Rickey. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Kinetic_art. . Two Open Rectangles, Excentric, Variation VI, is a public artwork by American artist George Rickey, located on the Middlebury College campus, outside of the Christian A. Johnson Memorial Building, in Middlebury, Vermont, United States. This kinetic sculpture of stainless steel consists of two rotating open rectangles attached with bearings on a u-shaped mount on an upright arm in a steel base. It measures approximately 12 feet high by 3 feet wide.. Two Open Rectangles, Excentric, Variation VI, is a public artwork by American artist George Rickey, located on the Middlebury College campus, outside of the Christian A. Johnson Memorial Building, in Middlebury, Vermont, United States. This kinetic sculpture of stainless steel consists of two rotating open rectangles attached with bearings on a u-shaped mount on an upright arm in a steel base. It measures approximately 12 feet high by 3 feet wide.. 
King Kong statue. Author Name: Monro, Nicholas. . . A statue of King Kong by Nicholas Monro was commissioned in 1972 for display in Manzoni Gardens in The Bull Ring, in the centre of Birmingham, England. It was later displayed elsewhere in Birmingham, then in Edinburgh, and is now in Penrith. It can be seen on occasion if travelling on the main rail link from Scotland to NW England on the left hand side.The Arnolfini Gallery in Bristol had a maquette. That is in Wolverhampton Art Gallery as of August 2011.[citation needed]. A statue of King Kong by Nicholas Monro was commissioned in 1972 for display in Manzoni Gardens in The Bull Ring, in the centre of Birmingham, England. It was later displayed elsewhere in Birmingham, then in Edinburgh, and is now in Penrith. It can be seen on occasion if travelling on the main rail link from Scotland to NW England on the left hand side. The Arnolfini Gallery in Bristol had a maquette. That is in Wolverhampton Art Gallery as of August 2011.[citation needed]. 
Quince and Teapot. Author Name: Teterin, Victor. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Quince and Teapot is a decorative still life of Russian painter Victor Kuzmich Teterin (Russian: Ви′ктор Кузьми′ч Тете′рин, 1922-1991), which depicts the quince fruit and teapot on a silver tray.. Quince and Teapot is a decorative still life of Russian painter Victor Kuzmich Teterin (Russian: Ви′ктор Кузьми′ч Тете′рин, 1922-1991), which depicts the quince fruit and teapot on a silver tray.. 
Kali. Author Name: Tyeb Mehta. . . Kali is a painting by Indian artist Tyeb Mehta depicting the Hindu goddess Kali with a gouged mouth. Painted in 1997, the work was sold in May 2005 for 10 million Indian rupees at Indian auction house Saffronart's online auction. According to the Times of India, it is a "dramatic, disturbing work".. Kali is a painting by Indian artist Tyeb Mehta depicting the Hindu goddess Kali with a gouged mouth. Painted in 1997, the work was sold in May 2005 for 10 million Indian rupees at Indian auction house Saffronart's online auction. According to the Times of India, it is a "dramatic, disturbing work".. 
Shostakovich. Author Name: Aubrey Williams. . . Shostakovich (1969-1981) is a series of thirty oil paintings by Aubrey Williams. Each painting in the series is based on a particular symphony or quartet by the Russian composer, Dmitri Shostakovich, who Williams regarded as "the greatest composer of [his] time".. Shostakovich (1969-1981) is a series of thirty oil paintings by Aubrey Williams. Each painting in the series is based on a particular symphony or quartet by the Russian composer, Dmitri Shostakovich, who Williams regarded as "the greatest composer of [his] time".. 
A Lane near Arles. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . A Lane Near Arles was painted by Vincent van Gogh in 1888, while he was living in Arles. It depicts a lane surrounded by trees running between the fields outside of Arles, France. A yellow house stands at the side of the lane. The use of color in the painting is typical of Van Gogh in this period. The colors are bright and alive, lighting up the canvas and offering a view that is more perceived than actually experienced. The idyllic nature of the moment is thus conveyed in the use of colors.. A Lane Near Arles was painted by Vincent van Gogh in 1888, while he was living in Arles. It depicts a lane surrounded by trees running between the fields outside of Arles, France. A yellow house stands at the side of the lane. The use of color in the painting is typical of Van Gogh in this period. The colors are bright and alive, lighting up the canvas and offering a view that is more perceived than actually experienced. The idyllic nature of the moment is thus conveyed in the use of colors. A Lane Near Arles is currently in the collection of the Pommersches Landesmuseum, Greifswald, in Germany.. 
A Young Man Being Introduced to the Seven Liberal Arts. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . A Young Man Being Introduced to the Seven Liberal Arts, also known as Lorenzo Tornabuoni Presented by Grammar to Prudentia and the other Liberal Arts or Lorenzo Tornabuoni Being Introduced to the Liberal Arts (Italian: Giovane Introdotto tra le Arti Liberali), is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli, circa 1483-1486. The painting and its companion piece, Venus and the Three Graces Presenting Gifts to a Young Woman, originally decorated Villa Lemmi, a country villa near Florence owned by Giovanni Tornabuoni, uncle of Lorenzo de' Medici and head of the Roman branch of the Medici Bank. They were probably commissioned for the 1486 wedding of Giovanni's son Lorenzo to Giovanna of the Albizzi family, and are therefore thought to depict the two.. A Young Man Being Introduced to the Seven Liberal Arts, also known as Lorenzo Tornabuoni Presented by Grammar to Prudentia and the other Liberal Arts or Lorenzo Tornabuoni Being Introduced to the Liberal Arts (Italian: Giovane Introdotto tra le Arti Liberali), is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli, circa 1483-1486. The painting and its companion piece, Venus and the Three Graces Presenting Gifts to a Young Woman, originally decorated Villa Lemmi, a country villa near Florence owned by Giovanni Tornabuoni, uncle of Lorenzo de' Medici and head of the Roman branch of the Medici Bank. They were probably commissioned for the 1486 wedding of Giovanni's son Lorenzo to Giovanna of the Albizzi family, and are therefore thought to depict the two. A Young Man Being Introduced to the Seven Liberal Arts depicts a young man, perhaps Lorenzo Tornabuoni, led by a personification of Grammar into a circle of allegorical figures representing the Seven Liberal Arts. Presided over by Prudentia, the circle also includes Rhetoric, Logic, Arithmetic, Geometry, Astronomy and Music, each recognizable by means of various attributes. In antiquity, the liberal arts denoted the education worthy of a free person and the painting therefore testifies to the young man's broad education. The figure of Arithmetic is seen holding its hand out in greeting to the young man. Tornabuoni, a scion to a banking family, would have probably had an education focused on numbers. Both paintings were discovered at Villa Lemmi in 1873 under a coat of whitewash and removed from their original location. They are currently housed in the Musée du Louvre, Paris.. 
Vietnam. Author Name: Kanso, Nabil. . . Vietnam is a mural-size painting made by Nabil Kanso in 1974 in response to the Vietnam War. It is done in oil on canvas measuring 3.65 by 7.30 meters (12 X 24 feet).. Vietnam is a mural-size painting made by Nabil Kanso in 1974 in response to the Vietnam War. It is done in oil on canvas measuring 3.65 by 7.30 meters (12 X 24 feet).. 
Bust of Cardinal Escoubleau de Sourdis. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Bust of Cardinal Escoubleau de Sourdis is a marble portrait sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Executed in 1622, the work depicts François de Sourdis. It is currently in the Musée d'Aquitaine in Bordeaux, France.. The Bust of Cardinal Escoubleau de Sourdis is a marble portrait sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Executed in 1622, the work depicts François de Sourdis. It is currently in the Musée d'Aquitaine in Bordeaux, France.. 
Salutat. Author Name: Thomas Eakins. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Salutat is an 1898 painting by Thomas Eakins (1844–1916). Based on a real-life boxing match that occurred in 1898, the work depicts a boxer waving to the crowd after the match. According to Eakins' biographer Lloyd Goodrich, Salutat is "one of Eakins' finest achievements in figure-painting." The painting's title is Latin for "He greets" or "He salutes.". Salutat is an 1898 painting by Thomas Eakins (1844–1916). Based on a real-life boxing match that occurred in 1898, the work depicts a boxer waving to the crowd after the match. According to Eakins' biographer Lloyd Goodrich, Salutat is "one of Eakins' finest achievements in figure-painting." The painting's title is Latin for "He greets" or "He salutes.". 
Family of Saltimbanques. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Family of Saltimbanques (La famille de saltimbanques) is a 1905 painting by Pablo Picasso. It is considered the masterpiece of Picasso's Rose Period, sometimes called his circus period. Its dimensions are 212.8 cm × 229.6 cm (83.8 in × 90.4 in).The painting depicts six saltimbanques, a kind of itinerant circus performer, in a desolate landscape. The composition groups them together but they seem disconnected and do not look at one another.A related work in gouache and pastel is Family of Acrobats (1905).. Family of Saltimbanques (La famille de saltimbanques) is a 1905 painting by Pablo Picasso. It is considered the masterpiece of Picasso's Rose Period, sometimes called his circus period. Its dimensions are 212.8 cm × 229.6 cm (83.8 in × 90.4 in). The painting depicts six saltimbanques, a kind of itinerant circus performer, in a desolate landscape. The composition groups them together but they seem disconnected and do not look at one another. It was painted during a period from late 1904 to early 1906 when Picasso explored themes using the saltimbanque. Picasso frequently attended the Cirque Médrano in Montmartre. Critics have suggested Family of Saltimbanques is a covert group portrait of Picasso and his circle, symbolized as poor, independent and isolated. The painting was removed from the Spanish salon at the IX Biennale of Venice in 1910, because considered inappropriate by the organization. Bohemian–Austrian poet Rainer Maria Rilke (1875–1926) was inspired by this painting as he wrote the fifth of ten elegies in his Duino Elegies (1923). Rilke used the figures in Picasso's painting as a symbol of "human activity ... always travelling and with no fixed abode, they are even a shade more fleeting than the rest of us, whose fleetingness was lamented." Further, although Picasso's painting depicts the figures in a desolate desert landscape, Rilke described them as standing on a "threadbare carpet" to suggest "the ultimate loneliness and isolation of Man in this incomprehensible world, practicing their profession from childhood to death as playthings of an unknown will...before their 'pure too-little; had passed into 'empty too-much'." A related work in gouache and pastel is Family of Acrobats (1905).. 
Children Are the Victims of Adult Vices. Author Name: Chemiakin, Mikhail. . . Children Are the Victims of Adult Vices is a group of bronze sculptures created by Russian artist Mihail Chemiakin. The sculptures are located in a park in Bolotnaya Square, Balchug, 2,000 feet (610 metres) south of the Moscow Kremlin behind the British Ambassador's residence.The sculptures are of thirteen figures, which depict adult vices, such as alcoholism, drug addiction, and prostitution, that affect children. The figures are perceptibly closing in on two unaware playmates, a girl and a boy, with the centrepiece figure being 'Indifference'.. Children Are the Victims of Adult Vices is a group of bronze sculptures created by Russian artist Mihail Chemiakin. The sculptures are located in a park in Bolotnaya Square, Balchug, 2,000 feet (610 metres) south of the Moscow Kremlin behind the British Ambassador's residence. The sculptures are of thirteen figures, which depict adult vices, such as alcoholism, drug addiction, and prostitution, that affect children. The figures are perceptibly closing in on two unaware playmates, a girl and a boy, with the centrepiece figure being 'Indifference'. The sculpture was commissioned by then-Mayor Yuri Luzhkov and sponsored by the state-owned oil company Rosneft. It was unveiled in 2001 amid some controversy. Some Muscovites worried that the graphic imagery would frighten children. Chemiakin said that, "[The sculpture] ... was conceived and carried out by me as a symbol and a call to fight for the salvation of present and future generations.". 
The Emperor Napoleon in His Study at the Tuileries. Author Name: Jacques-Louis David. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . The Emperor Napoleon in His Study at the Tuileries is an 1812 painting by Jacques-Louis David. It shows French Emperor Napoleon I in uniform in his study at the Tuileries Palace. Despite the detail, it is unlikely that Napoleon posed for the portrait.. The Emperor Napoleon in His Study at the Tuileries is an 1812 painting by Jacques-Louis David. It shows French Emperor Napoleon I in uniform in his study at the Tuileries Palace. Despite the detail, it is unlikely that Napoleon posed for the portrait. It was a private commission from the Scottish nobleman and admirer of Napoleon, Alexander Hamilton, 10th Duke of Hamilton in 1811 and completed in 1812. Originally shown at Hamilton Palace, it was sold to Archibald Primrose, 5th Earl of Rosebery in 1882, from whom it was bought by the Samuel H. Kress Foundation in 1954, which deposited it in Washington D.C.'s National Gallery of Art, where it now hangs.. 
Nelson Mandela. Author Name: Shepard Fairey. . . The Nelson Mandela Mural is Shepard Fairey’s first work in Africa. It is an 9-storey, 2,174 ft2 (201.6 m2) public artwork on Juta Street in Braamfontein, Johannesburg, completed in September 2014. It pays tribute to Nelson Mandela and the 25th anniversary of the Purple Rain Protest. The mural overlooks the Nelson Mandela Bridge, and is seen by many as a sequel to Fairey's iconic Barack Obama HOPE poster.The project was curated and produced by Jesse Stagg with the support of the Nelson Mandela Foundation, the U.S. State department, and the South African Consulate.. The Nelson Mandela Mural is Shepard Fairey’s first work in Africa. It is an 9-storey, 2,174 ft2 (201.6 m2) public artwork on Juta Street in Braamfontein, Johannesburg, completed in September 2014. It pays tribute to Nelson Mandela and the 25th anniversary of the Purple Rain Protest. The mural overlooks the Nelson Mandela Bridge, and is seen by many as a sequel to Fairey's iconic Barack Obama HOPE poster. "It is a huge exclamation point downtown..." said Patrick Gaspard, American Ambassador to South Africa, which makes us remember the entire liberation struggle and the remarkably peaceful transition to freedom Nelson Mandela achieved. The Purple Rain Protest was a turning point in South Africa’s struggle against Apartheid. Peaceful protesters faced down Riot Police armed with tear gas, batons, attack dogs, and a new weapon — a water cannon filled with purple dye to “spraypaint” the demonstrators for later arrest. The confrontation turned into political theater, when a protester seized control of the cannon, and turned it back on the Police, painting them. The next day graffiti appeared and quickly spread, declaring “The Purple Shall Govern”, a pun on the Freedom Charter’s key phrase: “The People Shall Govern”. It was the Apartheid government’s last attempt to suppress dissent. Four months later, Nelson Mandela was released after 27 years in prison, and in 1994 became the first president of a new democratic South Africa. The project was curated and produced by Jesse Stagg with the support of the Nelson Mandela Foundation, the U.S. State department, and the South African Consulate.. 
Homer. Author Name: Moses Jacob Ezekiel. . . Blind Homer With His Student Guide is a bronze sculpture by Moses Jacob Ezekiel in the likeness of the blind poet Homer, author of the Iliad, accompanied by a student guide. Ezekiel completed the statue in 1907 on a commission from John Woodruff Simpson as a gift for Amherst College, his alma mater. For reasons unknown the gift was refused, and Thomas Nelson Page, a Virginia alumnus who was active in the UVA Alumni Association, stepped in to secure the gift of the statue to UVa instead. Ezekiel completed the work in his Rome studio and donated a five foot tall black marble pedestal upon which the statue was originally installed.. Blind Homer With His Student Guide is a bronze sculpture by Moses Jacob Ezekiel in the likeness of the blind poet Homer, author of the Iliad, accompanied by a student guide. Ezekiel completed the statue in 1907 on a commission from John Woodruff Simpson as a gift for Amherst College, his alma mater. For reasons unknown the gift was refused, and Thomas Nelson Page, a Virginia alumnus who was active in the UVA Alumni Association, stepped in to secure the gift of the statue to UVa instead. Ezekiel completed the work in his Rome studio and donated a five foot tall black marble pedestal upon which the statue was originally installed. The statue is installed on The Lawn, in the grass to the north of Old Cabell Hall.. 
Values of Civilization. Author Name: Doyle, Alexander. . . The Values of Civilization sculpture group is public art by American artist Alexander Doyle. The allegorical sculpture group is located on the third floor in the rotunda of the Indiana State House, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, USA. The heroic-sized sculptures, representing Agriculture, Art, Commerce, History, Justice, Law, Liberty, and Oratory, were carved from Carrara marble in Italy in the late 1880s.. The Values of Civilization sculpture group is public art by American artist Alexander Doyle. The allegorical sculpture group is located on the third floor in the rotunda of the Indiana State House, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, USA. The heroic-sized sculptures, representing Agriculture, Art, Commerce, History, Justice, Law, Liberty, and Oratory, were carved from Carrara marble in Italy in the late 1880s.. 
Portrait of Gustave Geffroy. Author Name: Paul Cézanne. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Portrait of Gustave Geffroy is a c. 1895 painting by the French Post-Impressionist artist Paul Cézanne. It portrays Gustave Geffroy, a French novelist and art critic noted as one of the earliest historians of Impressionism. In March 1894, Geffroy wrote a sympathetic article in the periodical Le Journal praising the work of painter Paul Cézanne who until then had received little praise in critical circles. Mutual friend Claude Monet arranged for a meeting between the two in November of that year which ended abruptly due to Cézanne's oft-noted erratic behavior. Nonetheless, Geffroy continued to write favorably of Cézanne, believing, "He is a great teller of truth. Passionate and candid, silent and subtle, he will go to The Louvre." Cézanne expressed thanks in letters to Geffroy in the months. Portrait of Gustave Geffroy is a c. 1895 painting by the French Post-Impressionist artist Paul Cézanne. It portrays Gustave Geffroy, a French novelist and art critic noted as one of the earliest historians of Impressionism. In March 1894, Geffroy wrote a sympathetic article in the periodical Le Journal praising the work of painter Paul Cézanne who until then had received little praise in critical circles. Mutual friend Claude Monet arranged for a meeting between the two in November of that year which ended abruptly due to Cézanne's oft-noted erratic behavior. Nonetheless, Geffroy continued to write favorably of Cézanne, believing, "He is a great teller of truth. Passionate and candid, silent and subtle, he will go to The Louvre." Cézanne expressed thanks in letters to Geffroy in the months following their meeting and, in a display of gratitude (and possible feeling that Geffroy understood him), he elected to paint Geffroy's portrait. The painter sent the critic a request in April 1895, after which Geffroy sat for Cézanne daily over a span of three months in the study at his home in Paris. After the three months' time, Cézanne, disappointed with the portrait's results, fled both the painting and Paris itself for his home in Aix-en-Provence. In a July 6 letter to Monet, he explained, "I am a little upset at the meager result I obtained, especially after so many sittings and successive bursts of enthusiasm and despair." It has also been speculated that, despite his words of gratitude in the same letter to Monet noting Geffroy's patience over the three-month span, the artist had built up feelings of resentment, even hostility, toward the critic, causing his abandonment of the project for seclusion in Aix. Reasons for the breakdown in relations on Cézanne's part have been attributed to everything from politics to artistic principles to religion. Cézanne was unhappy with the painting and it was never finished, yet Portrait of Gustave Geffroy became a popular retrospective work after his death. Cubist painters were interested in the geometrical dimensions of the bookcase and perspective of vast table space in relation to the rest of the pictorial space. Geffroy noted that Cézanne painted the entire canvas at once, leaving the face and hands for last; they were ultimately unfinished. The portrait has been described as angular, with the figure of Geffroy centered as a pyramidal or triangular figure, and surrounded by shelves, books and figurines complementing and converging on top of his profile. The multiple angles of perspective, particularly with the books both in cases and on the table, have been noted for their "zig-zag" effect on the viewer, creating movement within the painting. The portrait has been noted as the continuation of a recurring Cézanne theme: people in their natural environment, reserved and unimposing, immersed in their everyday tasks. It has also been compared to the earlier Portrait of Duranty by Edgar Degas, from which critics have speculated Cézanne drew inspiration. The painting was donated to the French state in 1969 by the family of collector Auguste Pellerin and is on permanent display at the Musée d'Orsay in Paris.. 
DNA Tower. Author Name: Dale Chihuly. . . DNA Tower, a public sculpture by American glass artist Dale Chihuly, is in the Morris Mills Atrium of the VanNuys Medical Science Building, on the campus of Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis (IUPUI), which is near downtown Indianapolis, Indiana. It was commissioned for the Indiana University School of Medicine through a gift from an anonymous donor and was dedicated on September 30, 2003.DNA Tower is 20.2 feet (6.2 m) tall and 4.7 feet (1.4 m) in diameter; its wooden base is 5.4 feet (1.6 m) in diameter.. DNA Tower, a public sculpture by American glass artist Dale Chihuly, is in the Morris Mills Atrium of the VanNuys Medical Science Building, on the campus of Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis (IUPUI), which is near downtown Indianapolis, Indiana. It was commissioned for the Indiana University School of Medicine through a gift from an anonymous donor and was dedicated on September 30, 2003. DNA Tower is 20.2 feet (6.2 m) tall and 4.7 feet (1.4 m) in diameter; its wooden base is 5.4 feet (1.6 m) in diameter.. 
The Lock. Author Name: John Constable. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . The Lock is an oil painting by English artist John Constable, finished in 1824. It depicts a rural scene on the River Stour in Suffolk, one of six paintings within the Stour series.It was auctioned for £22,441,250 at Christie's in London on 3 July 2012.. The Lock is an oil painting by English artist John Constable, finished in 1824. It depicts a rural scene on the River Stour in Suffolk, one of six paintings within the Stour series. It was auctioned for £22,441,250 at Christie's in London on 3 July 2012.. 
St Jerome in the Wilderness. Author Name: Leonardo da Vinci. . . St Jerome in the Wilderness (c. 1480) is an unfinished painting by Leonardo da Vinci, now in the Vatican Museums, Rome.. St Jerome in the Wilderness (c. 1480) is an unfinished painting by Leonardo da Vinci, now in the Vatican Museums, Rome.. 
Basket of Bread. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Basket of Bread (1945) or Basket of Bread-Rather Death Than Shame is a painting by Spanish Surrealist Salvador Dalí. The painting depicts a heel of a loaf bread in a basket, sitting near the edge of a table. Dalí's use of bread in his paintings is much more than a staple of one's diet. In this case, to understand Dalí's message, one must look at the political context at the time of the painting, his progression as an artist, his societal beliefs and how bread is used in the painting.. Basket of Bread (1945) or Basket of Bread-Rather Death Than Shame is a painting by Spanish Surrealist Salvador Dalí. The painting depicts a heel of a loaf bread in a basket, sitting near the edge of a table. Dalí's use of bread in his paintings is much more than a staple of one's diet. In this case, to understand Dalí's message, one must look at the political context at the time of the painting, his progression as an artist, his societal beliefs and how bread is used in the painting.. 
Poppy Flowers. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Poppy Flowers (also known as Vase and Flowers and Vase with Viscaria) is a painting by Vincent van Gogh with an estimated value of $50 million to $55 million; it was stolen from Cairo's Mohamed Mahmoud Khalil Museum in August 2010 and is still yet to be found.Egyptian officials erroneously believed they had recovered the painting only hours after its theft when two Italian suspects attempted to board a plane to Italy at Cairo International Airport. The same painting had been stolen from the same museum on June 4, 1977, and was recovered ten years later in Kuwait.. Poppy Flowers (also known as Vase and Flowers and Vase with Viscaria) is a painting by Vincent van Gogh with an estimated value of $50 million to $55 million; it was stolen from Cairo's Mohamed Mahmoud Khalil Museum in August 2010 and is still yet to be found. Egyptian officials erroneously believed they had recovered the painting only hours after its theft when two Italian suspects attempted to board a plane to Italy at Cairo International Airport. The same painting had been stolen from the same museum on June 4, 1977, and was recovered ten years later in Kuwait. The painting is small, measuring 65 x 54 cm, and depicts yellow and red poppy flowers. It is believed that van Gogh painted it in 1887, three years before his suicide. The painting, which is of a vase of yellow and red poppies, contrasted against a dark ground is a reflection of Van Gogh's deep admiration for Adolphe Monticelli, an older painter whose work influenced him when first he saw it in Paris in 1886.. 
Untitled #153. Author Name: Cindy Sherman. . . Untitled #153 is a photograph made by American visual artist Cindy Sherman in 1985. In 2010, a print was auctioned for $2.7 million, making it one of the most expensive photographs ever sold at that time.. Untitled #153 is a photograph made by American visual artist Cindy Sherman in 1985. In 2010, a print was auctioned for $2.7 million, making it one of the most expensive photographs ever sold at that time.. 
Christina's World. Author Name: Andrew Wyeth. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Regionalism_(art). . Christina's World is a 1948 painting by American painter Andrew Wyeth, and one of the best-known American paintings of the middle 20th century. It depicts a woman lying on the ground in a treeless, mostly tawny field, looking up at a gray house on the horizon; a barn and various other small outbuildings are adjacent to the house.This tempera work, done in a realist style, is currently on display at the Museum of Modern Art in New York, as a part of its permanent collection.. Christina's World is a 1948 painting by American painter Andrew Wyeth, and one of the best-known American paintings of the middle 20th century. It depicts a woman lying on the ground in a treeless, mostly tawny field, looking up at a gray house on the horizon; a barn and various other small outbuildings are adjacent to the house. This tempera work, done in a realist style, is currently on display at the Museum of Modern Art in New York, as a part of its permanent collection.. 
Girl in a White Kimono. Author Name: George Hendrik Breitner. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/19th-century_Dutch_literature. . Girl in a White Kimono (Dutch: Meisje in witte kimono) is an 1894 oil painting by George Hendrik Breitner. The subject of the painting is the sixteen-year-old Geesje Kwak, of whom Breitner made a series of photographs and paintings wearing red and white kimonos. The painting was inspired by the style of Japanese prints and is an example of Japonism. The painting is in the collection of the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam.. Girl in a White Kimono (Dutch: Meisje in witte kimono) is an 1894 oil painting by George Hendrik Breitner. The subject of the painting is the sixteen-year-old Geesje Kwak, of whom Breitner made a series of photographs and paintings wearing red and white kimonos. The painting was inspired by the style of Japanese prints and is an example of Japonism. The painting is in the collection of the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam.. 
La Négresse. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . La Négresse (1952/1953) by Henri Matisse is a gouache découpée. During the early-to-mid-1940s, Matisse was in poor health. Eventually, by 1950, he stopped painting in favor of his paper cutouts. La Negresse is an example of Matisse's final body of works known as the cutouts. He initially created this work as a large wall piece.. La Négresse (1952/1953) by Henri Matisse is a gouache découpée. During the early-to-mid-1940s, Matisse was in poor health. Eventually, by 1950, he stopped painting in favor of his paper cutouts. La Negresse is an example of Matisse's final body of works known as the cutouts. He initially created this work as a large wall piece.. 
The Story of Abraham. Author Name: Aelst, Pieter van. . . The Story of Abraham is a series of ten tapestries believed to have been commissioned in the mid 16th century by Henry VIII to furnish Hampton Court Palace. The series depicts scenes from the life of the prophet Abraham and have both historically and contemporarily been considered one of the finest pieces of decorative artwork from the period.. The Story of Abraham is a series of ten tapestries believed to have been commissioned in the mid 16th century by Henry VIII to furnish Hampton Court Palace. The series depicts scenes from the life of the prophet Abraham and have both historically and contemporarily been considered one of the finest pieces of decorative artwork from the period.. 
Small Cowper Madonna. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Small Cowper Madonna is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael, depicting Mary and Child, in a typical Italian countryside. It has been dated to around 1505, the middle of the High Renaissance.. The Small Cowper Madonna is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael, depicting Mary and Child, in a typical Italian countryside. It has been dated to around 1505, the middle of the High Renaissance.. 
No. 5, 1948. Author Name: Jackson Pollock. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . No. 5, 1948 is a painting by Jackson Pollock, an American painter known for his contributions to the abstract expressionist movement.. No. 5, 1948 is a painting by Jackson Pollock, an American painter known for his contributions to the abstract expressionist movement.. 
Heritage. Author Name: James E. Fraser. . . Heritage is an outdoor 1935 sculpture by American artist James Earle Fraser, installed in front of the National Archives Building in Washington, D.C., United States. Heritage is a companion piece to Guardianship.The National Archives Foundation's Heritage Award, which recognizes "individuals, corporations, and organizations whose deeds are consistent with the Foundation's mission of educating, enriching, and inspiring a deeper appreciation of our country's heritage", is named after the sculpture.. Heritage is an outdoor 1935 sculpture by American artist James Earle Fraser, installed in front of the National Archives Building in Washington, D.C., United States. Heritage is a companion piece to Guardianship. The National Archives Foundation's Heritage Award, which recognizes "individuals, corporations, and organizations whose deeds are consistent with the Foundation's mission of educating, enriching, and inspiring a deeper appreciation of our country's heritage", is named after the sculpture.. 
Portrait of a Man. Author Name: Domenico Ghirlandaio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Portrait of a Man is a painting from c. 1448–1494 made by the Italian Renaissance painter Domenico Ghirlandaio (1449 – 1494) executed in tempera on wood.. Portrait of a Man is a painting from c. 1448–1494 made by the Italian Renaissance painter Domenico Ghirlandaio (1449 – 1494) executed in tempera on wood.. 
Visitation. Author Name: Domenico Ghirlandaio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Visitation is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Domenico Ghirlandaio, dating 1491. It is displayed in the Louvre Museum of Paris, France.The work was commissioned by Lorenzo Tornabuoni for the church later known as Santa Maria Maddalena de' Pazzi.. The Visitation is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Domenico Ghirlandaio, dating 1491. It is displayed in the Louvre Museum of Paris, France. The work was commissioned by Lorenzo Tornabuoni for the church later known as Santa Maria Maddalena de' Pazzi.. 
Landscape with Obelisk. Author Name: Govert Flinck. . Author Movement: Baroque. . Landscape with Obelisk is painting by Dutch artist Govert Flinck, painted in 1638. The oil-on-wood painting measures 54.5 by 71 centimetres (21.5 in × 28.0 in). It was formerly attributed to Rembrandt. The painting hung in the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum of Boston, Massachusetts, United States, prior to being stolen in 1990.. Landscape with Obelisk is painting by Dutch artist Govert Flinck, painted in 1638. The oil-on-wood painting measures 54.5 by 71 centimetres (21.5 in × 28.0 in). It was formerly attributed to Rembrandt. The painting hung in the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum of Boston, Massachusetts, United States, prior to being stolen in 1990.. 
The Boucher Nude. Author Name: John Brack. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Antipodeans. . The Boucher Nude is a 1957 painting by Australian artist John Brack. The painting is a nude, depicting a woman lying on a sofa. Sasha Grishin, the William Dobell Professor of Art History at the Australian National University claimed that "The Boucher Nude can be justly regarded as one of the great masterpieces in Australian art."With what has been described as his "characteristic irony", Brack painted his thin dark-haired model—the only one to respond to his advertisement—in "the pose of the more voluptuous Mademoiselle O’Murphy, in Francois Boucher’s L’Odalisque (c.1745)"". The Boucher Nude is a 1957 painting by Australian artist John Brack. The painting is a nude, depicting a woman lying on a sofa. Sasha Grishin, the William Dobell Professor of Art History at the Australian National University claimed that "The Boucher Nude can be justly regarded as one of the great masterpieces in Australian art." The painting is one of a set of nine oil paintings—Brack's first paintings of the nude—first displayed in Melbourne in 1957. The series "subsequently become iconic in Australian art" with many ending up in public collections including Nude in an armchair (1957) purchased by the National Gallery of Victoria and Nude with two chairs (1957) acquired by the Art Gallery of New South Wales, both directly from this initial exhibition. With what has been described as his "characteristic irony", Brack painted his thin dark-haired model—the only one to respond to his advertisement—in "the pose of the more voluptuous Mademoiselle O’Murphy, in Francois Boucher’s L’Odalisque (c.1745)"" In 2008, the painting was sold for AUD1,500,000.. 
Portrait of Perugino. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Perugino is a portrait of the Italian Renaissance artist Perugino attributed to his pupil Raphael or to Lorenzo di Credi. It was produced around 1504 and is now in the Uffizi gallery, Florence.. The Portrait of Perugino is a portrait of the Italian Renaissance artist Perugino attributed to his pupil Raphael or to Lorenzo di Credi. It was produced around 1504 and is now in the Uffizi gallery, Florence.. 
William Tecumseh Sherman. Author Name: Augustus Saint-Gaudens. . . William Tecumseh Sherman, also known as the Sherman Memorial or Sherman Monument, is an outdoor sculpture of William Tecumseh Sherman by Augustus Saint-Gaudens, located at Grand Army Plaza in Manhattan, New York. Cast in 1902 and dedicated on May 30, 1903, the gilded-bronze monument consists of an equestrian statue and a female figure, set on a Stony Creek granite pedestal.. William Tecumseh Sherman, also known as the Sherman Memorial or Sherman Monument, is an outdoor sculpture of William Tecumseh Sherman by Augustus Saint-Gaudens, located at Grand Army Plaza in Manhattan, New York. Cast in 1902 and dedicated on May 30, 1903, the gilded-bronze monument consists of an equestrian statue and a female figure, set on a Stony Creek granite pedestal.. 
Ezekiel's Vision. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Ezekiel's Vision is a c. 1518 painting by Raphael showing the prophet Ezekiel's vision of God in majesty. It is housed in the Palatine Gallery of Palazzo Pitti, Florence, central Italy.. Ezekiel's Vision is a c. 1518 painting by Raphael showing the prophet Ezekiel's vision of God in majesty. It is housed in the Palatine Gallery of Palazzo Pitti, Florence, central Italy.. 
La Madrileña. Author Name: Juan Luna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The La Madrileña (En el Balcon) (literally "The Woman from Madrid (At the Balcony)"), sometimes simply referred to as La Madrileña) is a painting by award-winning Filipino painter and hero Juan Luna. It depicts a woman holding an umbrella known as the parasol. La Madrileña (En el Balcon) is one of the paintings that illustrate Luna's inclination of making women an artistic theme, showing the artist's talent as an enthusiastic painter and observer of the fairer sex. La Madrileña (En el Balcon) is one of the few existing finished paintings that are regarded by art experts as a "legacy" from Luna.. The La Madrileña (En el Balcon) (literally "The Woman from Madrid (At the Balcony)"), sometimes simply referred to as La Madrileña) is a painting by award-winning Filipino painter and hero Juan Luna. It depicts a woman holding an umbrella known as the parasol. La Madrileña (En el Balcon) is one of the paintings that illustrate Luna's inclination of making women an artistic theme, showing the artist's talent as an enthusiastic painter and observer of the fairer sex. La Madrileña (En el Balcon) is one of the few existing finished paintings that are regarded by art experts as a "legacy" from Luna.. 
Les Adieux de Cinq-Mars à Marie d'Entraigues or le Baiser du départ. Author Name: Jacquand, Claudius. . . Les Adieux de Cinq-Mars à Marie d'Entraigues or le Baiser du départ (Cinq-Mars' Farewell to Marie d'Entraigues or the Kiss Goodbye) is a painting by Claude Jacquand in 1836, which is kept at the Musée des beaux-arts de Lyon.. Les Adieux de Cinq-Mars à Marie d'Entraigues or le Baiser du départ (Cinq-Mars' Farewell to Marie d'Entraigues or the Kiss Goodbye) is a painting by Claude Jacquand in 1836, which is kept at the Musée des beaux-arts de Lyon.. 
Freedom of Worship. Author Name: Norman Rockwell. . . Freedom of Worship or Freedom to Worship is the second of the Four Freedoms oil paintings produced by the American artist Norman Rockwell. The series was based on the goals known as the Four Freedoms enunciated by the 32nd President of the United States, Franklin D. Roosevelt, in his State of the Union Address delivered on January 6, 1941. Rockwell considered this painting and Freedom of Speech the most successful of the series. Freedom of Worship was published in the February 27, 1943, issue of The Saturday Evening Post alongside an essay by philosopher Will Durant.. Freedom of Worship or Freedom to Worship is the second of the Four Freedoms oil paintings produced by the American artist Norman Rockwell. The series was based on the goals known as the Four Freedoms enunciated by the 32nd President of the United States, Franklin D. Roosevelt, in his State of the Union Address delivered on January 6, 1941. Rockwell considered this painting and Freedom of Speech the most successful of the series. Freedom of Worship was published in the February 27, 1943, issue of The Saturday Evening Post alongside an essay by philosopher Will Durant.. 
View of Egmond aan Zee. Author Name: Jacob van Ruisdael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_Golden_Age_painting. . View of Egmond aan Zee (c. 1650s) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch landscape painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Nationalmuseum in Stockholm.Signed on the left with the monogram ; panel, 12 inches by 14 inches. Etched by L. Lowenstam and R. Norstedt. In the collection of Louisa Ulrica, Queen of Sweden, and there attributed to Rembrandt. In the collection of Gustavus III., King of Sweden. In the National Museum, Stockholm, 1900 catalogue, No. 618.". View of Egmond aan Zee (c. 1650s) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch landscape painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Nationalmuseum in Stockholm. This painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1911, who wrote; "50. VIEW OF EGMOND AAN ZEE. The village lies in the middle distance, with the sea beyond. The church with its stumpy square tower rises above the houses. In the foreground is a sunlit road through the dunes. The sun's rays also fall on the sea and on a sailing-boat to the right. Blue sky with clouds. A variation of 47. Signed on the left with the monogram ; panel, 12 inches by 14 inches. Etched by L. Lowenstam and R. Norstedt. In the collection of Louisa Ulrica, Queen of Sweden, and there attributed to Rembrandt. In the collection of Gustavus III., King of Sweden. In the National Museum, Stockholm, 1900 catalogue, No. 618." This scene is very similar to other paintings Ruisdael made of Egmond aan Zee and these were perhaps popular because the townsfolk already knew that erosion was threatening their village and had moved their homes and businesses further land inwards. The choir of the church was already in ruins and the tower was in use as a beacon for ships. Storms had steadily eroded the coast since a major flood in 1570 and in the 18th century the village as it is depicted here definitely disappeared in the waves. As a ghost town it was something of an early tourist attraction. Today the modern town is also threatened, as the coast is still eroding further eastwards.. 
View of Florence from San Miniato. Author Name: Thomas Cole. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Hudson_River_School. . View of Florence from San Miniato is an oil on canvas painting by American artist Thomas Cole. It was completed in 1837 and is currently housed at Cleveland Museum of Art.. View of Florence from San Miniato is an oil on canvas painting by American artist Thomas Cole. It was completed in 1837 and is currently housed at Cleveland Museum of Art.. 
Napoleon Crossing the Alps. Author Name: Jacques-Louis David. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . Napoleon Leading the Army over the Alps is an equestrian portrait of a youthful black male painted by the contemporary artist Kehinde Wiley in 2005. It is based on Jacques-Louis David’s 1801 equestrian portrait, Bonaparte Crossing the Alps. This painting was chosen by a man who Kehinde had approached in the streets. The basic composition of Wiley's painting is the same as the 200-year-old painting it was based on, and has many of the same elements. The modern painting has a decorative background rather than the battlefield background.. Napoleon Leading the Army over the Alps is an equestrian portrait of a youthful black male painted by the contemporary artist Kehinde Wiley in 2005. It is based on Jacques-Louis David’s 1801 equestrian portrait, Bonaparte Crossing the Alps. This painting was chosen by a man who Kehinde had approached in the streets. The basic composition of Wiley's painting is the same as the 200-year-old painting it was based on, and has many of the same elements. The modern painting has a decorative background rather than the battlefield background.. 
Portrait of Henry IV of Saxony and Catherine of Mecklenburg. Author Name: Lucas Cranach the Elder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/German_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Henry IV of Saxony and Catherine of Mecklenburg is a double painting by German Renaissance master Lucas Cranach the Elder, dating from 1514, now housed in the Gemäldegalerie Alte Meister of Dresden, Germany.The work was Cranach's first official portrait, and depicts Henry IV, Duke of Saxony, aside to his wife, Catherine of Mecklenburg in real size. Both wear lavishly decorated clothes and decorations recalling their families' coat of arms.. The Portrait of Henry IV of Saxony and Catherine of Mecklenburg is a double painting by German Renaissance master Lucas Cranach the Elder, dating from 1514, now housed in the Gemäldegalerie Alte Meister of Dresden, Germany. The work was Cranach's first official portrait, and depicts Henry IV, Duke of Saxony, aside to his wife, Catherine of Mecklenburg in real size. Both wear lavishly decorated clothes and decorations recalling their families' coat of arms. Henry, painted with his hunting dog, is portrayed in the act of drawing his sword. Catherine's panel contains a cartouche with Cranach's initials, the year of execution and a winged snake, the symbol of the painter's workshop.. 
Merahi metua no Tehamana. Author Name: Paul Gauguin. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Merahi metua no Tehamana is an 1893 painting by the French artist Paul Gauguin, currently in the collection of the Art Institute of Chicago. The painting is a portrait of Paul Gauguin's native wife Teha'amana during his first visit to Tahiti in 1891-1893. This marriage has always provoked controversy because of the manner it was contracted and Teha'amana's age: the marriage was arranged and completed in the course of a single afternoon and Gauguin claimed Teha'amana was just thirteen years old at the time.. Merahi metua no Tehamana is an 1893 painting by the French artist Paul Gauguin, currently in the collection of the Art Institute of Chicago. The painting is a portrait of Paul Gauguin's native wife Teha'amana during his first visit to Tahiti in 1891-1893. This marriage has always provoked controversy because of the manner it was contracted and Teha'amana's age: the marriage was arranged and completed in the course of a single afternoon and Gauguin claimed Teha'amana was just thirteen years old at the time. A sculpted head is also known to be a portrait of Teha'amana. She is assumed to have posed for numerous other paintings of the time, including the celebrated Spirit of the Dead Watching.. 
Saint Sebastian Tended by Irene. Author Name: Hendrick ter Brugghen. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Utrecht_Caravaggism. . Saint Sebastian Tended by Irene is an oil-on-canvas painting by Hendrick ter Brugghen dated to 1625. Now in the Allen Memorial Art Museum of Oberlin, Ohio, the piece depicts the Roman Catholic subject of Saint Sebastian being saved by Irene of Rome and her maid following his attempted martyrdom by the Roman authorities. An exemplary piece of the Italianate Baroque tendency in Dutch Golden Age painting, the painting employs dramatic uses of light and skillful chiaroscuro to depict its religious subject, evidence of influence from Caravaggio and Ter Brugghen's fellow Utrecht Caravaggisti.. Saint Sebastian Tended by Irene is an oil-on-canvas painting by Hendrick ter Brugghen dated to 1625. Now in the Allen Memorial Art Museum of Oberlin, Ohio, the piece depicts the Roman Catholic subject of Saint Sebastian being saved by Irene of Rome and her maid following his attempted martyrdom by the Roman authorities. An exemplary piece of the Italianate Baroque tendency in Dutch Golden Age painting, the painting employs dramatic uses of light and skillful chiaroscuro to depict its religious subject, evidence of influence from Caravaggio and Ter Brugghen's fellow Utrecht Caravaggisti. It was described by Seymour Slive as ter Brugghen's "masterpiece": "the large, full, forms of the group have been knit together into a magnificent design, and what could have been hard and sculptural is remarkably softened by the soft, silvery light which plays over Sebastian's half-dead, olive-grey body as well as the reds, creamy whites, and plum colours worn by the women who tend the saint".. 
Symphony in White, No. 2: The Little White Girl. Author Name: James Abbott McNeill Whistler. . Author Movement: Founder of Tonalism. . Symphony in White, No. 2, also known as The Little White Girl is a painting by James Abbott McNeill Whistler. The work shows a woman in three-quarter figure standing by a fireplace with a mirror over it. She is holding a fan in her hand, and wearing a white dress. The model is Joanna Hiffernan, the artist's mistress. Though the painting was originally called The Little White Girl, Whistler later started calling it Symphony in White, No. 2. By referring to his work in such abstract terms, he intended to emphasize his "art for art's sake" philosophy. In this painting, Heffernan wears a ring on her ring finger, even though the two were not married. By this religious imagery, Whistler emphasizes the aesthetic philosophy behind his work.. Symphony in White, No. 2, also known as The Little White Girl is a painting by James Abbott McNeill Whistler. The work shows a woman in three-quarter figure standing by a fireplace with a mirror over it. She is holding a fan in her hand, and wearing a white dress. The model is Joanna Hiffernan, the artist's mistress. Though the painting was originally called The Little White Girl, Whistler later started calling it Symphony in White, No. 2. By referring to his work in such abstract terms, he intended to emphasize his "art for art's sake" philosophy. In this painting, Heffernan wears a ring on her ring finger, even though the two were not married. By this religious imagery, Whistler emphasizes the aesthetic philosophy behind his work. Whistler created the painting in the winter of 1864, and it was displayed at the Royal Academy the next year. The original frame carried a poem written by Whistler's friend Algernon Charles Swinburne – titled Before the Mirror – written on sheets of golden paper. The poem was inspired by the painting, and to Whistler this demonstrated that the visual arts need not be subservient to literature. Though there are few clues to the meaning and symbolism of the painting, critics have found allusions to the work of Ingres, as well as oriental elements typical of the popular Japonisme.. 
Hogarth Painting the Comic Muse. Author Name: William  Hogarth. . . Hogarth Painting the Comic Muse (originally known as The Artist Painting the Comic Muse) is a painting in the National Portrait Gallery, London by the British artist William Hogarth. It was painted in approximately 1757 and published as a print in etching and engraving in 1758, with its final and sixth state in 1764. Hogarth used this particular self-portrait as the frontispiece of his collected engravings, published in 1764.. Hogarth Painting the Comic Muse (originally known as The Artist Painting the Comic Muse) is a painting in the National Portrait Gallery, London by the British artist William Hogarth. It was painted in approximately 1757 and published as a print in etching and engraving in 1758, with its final and sixth state in 1764. Hogarth used this particular self-portrait as the frontispiece of his collected engravings, published in 1764. The painting depicts Hogarth himself painting the Muse of Comedy, which represented artistic inspiration. Hogarth's decision to paint this particular figure may relate to his artistic motto: "my picture was my stage and men and women my actors", as the Comic Muse was said to provide inspiration for playwrights. Seated in front of his easel, palette in hand, Hogarth eagerly works at his painting; Hogarth expressly wanted a self-portrait in which he was depicted in the middle of painting a piece, rather than in a static pose. Leaning against the right leg of the easel is Hogarth's The Analysis of Beauty, a text which was written to complement this particular piece. X-ray analysis shows that the painting originally had a small dog relieving himself on a pile of old master paintings. The print of Hogarth Painting the Comic Muse went through several alterations mostly relating to the inscription at the bottom of the page. In the second state, the inscription read: "Wm Hogarth Sergeant Painter to His Majesty. The Face Engrav'd by Wm Hogarth and Publish'd as the Act directs". The third state omits "and", while adding "March 29, 1758" to the end. The fourth state omits "The Face Engrav'd by Wm Hogarth". In the fifth state, "Sergeant Painter" is scratched out, while changes have now also been made to the engraving itself; the Muse's face is now marked with black and on the pillar she stands beside is inscribed "Comedy 1764". The sixth state, which is depicted on the right, has nothing inscribed on it but "William Hogarth, 1764" on the bottom. Through this engraving, the early Georgian elbow chair in which Hogarth is shown sitting gave rise in the late nineteenth century to the collectors' and dealers' designation of "Hogarth chair" for similar bended-back elbow chairs with vase-shaped splats, slip seats (upholstered over a drop-in frame) and cabriole legs on pad feet. Such chairs from the American colonies are designated "Queen Anne chairs", perpetuating an early error in dating them.. 
Gather Ye Rosebuds While Ye May. Author Name: John William Waterhouse. . . Gather Ye Rosebuds While Ye May is an oil painting on canvas created in 1908 by British Pre-Raphaelite artist, John William Waterhouse. It was the first of two paintings inspired by the 17th century poem "To the Virgins, to Make Much of Time" by Robert Herrick which begins:. Gather Ye Rosebuds While Ye May is an oil painting on canvas created in 1908 by British Pre-Raphaelite artist, John William Waterhouse. It was the first of two paintings inspired by the 17th century poem "To the Virgins, to Make Much of Time" by Robert Herrick which begins:. 
Man at the Crossroads. Author Name: Diego Rivera. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mexican_muralism. . Man at the Crossroads was a fresco by Diego Rivera in New York City's Rockefeller Center. The painting was controversial because it included an image of Lenin and a Soviet Russian May Day parade. Despite protests from artists, Nelson Rockefeller ordered its destruction before it was completed.Only black-and-white photographs exist of the original incomplete mural, taken when Rivera was forced to stop work on it. Using the photographs, Rivera repainted the composition in Mexico under the variant title Man, Controller of the Universe.. Man at the Crossroads was a fresco by Diego Rivera in New York City's Rockefeller Center. The painting was controversial because it included an image of Lenin and a Soviet Russian May Day parade. Despite protests from artists, Nelson Rockefeller ordered its destruction before it was completed. Only black-and-white photographs exist of the original incomplete mural, taken when Rivera was forced to stop work on it. Using the photographs, Rivera repainted the composition in Mexico under the variant title Man, Controller of the Universe. The creation and destruction of the mural is dramatized in the films Cradle Will Rock (1999) and Frida (2002).. 
Adoration of the Child. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . Adoration of the Child is a painting by Hieronymus Bosch. It is in the Wallraf-Richartz Museum in Cologne.Like a few other Bosch paintings, this one portrays the baby Jesus and Mary.. Adoration of the Child is a painting by Hieronymus Bosch. It is in the Wallraf-Richartz Museum in Cologne. Like a few other Bosch paintings, this one portrays the baby Jesus and Mary.. 
Kendall Band. Author Name: Matisse, Paul. . . The Kendall Band is a three-part musical sculpture created between 1986 and 1988 by Paul Matisse, who is the grandson of French artist Henri Matisse and stepson of surrealist artist Marcel Duchamp. It is installed between the inbound and outbound tracks of the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority's Kendall Station located in Cambridge, Massachusetts near the MIT campus. The art work is seen by an estimated 12,518 riders on an average weekday, and originally cost $90,000 to construct.. The Kendall Band is a three-part musical sculpture created between 1986 and 1988 by Paul Matisse, who is the grandson of French artist Henri Matisse and stepson of surrealist artist Marcel Duchamp. It is installed between the inbound and outbound tracks of the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority's Kendall Station located in Cambridge, Massachusetts near the MIT campus. The art work is seen by an estimated 12,518 riders on an average weekday, and originally cost $90,000 to construct. The three parts of the interactive work are called Pythagoras, Kepler, and Galileo, and are all controlled by levers located on the subway platforms.. 
Colonel Guy Johnson and Karonghyontye. Author Name: Benjamin West. . . Colonel Guy Johnson and Karonghyontye (Captain David Hill) is a 1776 portrait by Benjamin West, an Anglo-American painter of historical scenes around and after the time of the American War of Independence. Benjamin West was among the founders of the Royal Academy in London, serving a its president from 1792 to 1805 and 1806 to 1820.. Colonel Guy Johnson and Karonghyontye (Captain David Hill) is a 1776 portrait by Benjamin West, an Anglo-American painter of historical scenes around and after the time of the American War of Independence. Benjamin West was among the founders of the Royal Academy in London, serving a its president from 1792 to 1805 and 1806 to 1820. The portrait depicts the military officer and diplomat Guy Johnson and the Mohawk chief Karonghyontye (who also went by the English name of David Hill). Johnson was the British superintendent of northeastern America's six Indian nations and commissioned the portrait in 1776 while in London to secure that royal appointment. Sailing from Canada, Johnson must have been accompanied by his close friend Karonghyontye.The alliance between British forces and several Indian tribes seriously threatened the rebel colonists' chances of victory during the Revolutionary War. In the portrait Benjamin West signifies Johnson's role as ambassador to the Indians by equipping him in a red-coated uniform with moccasins, wampum belt, Indian blanket, and Mohawk cap. Karonghyontye is shown pointing to a peace pipe, while Johnson grasps a musket. This could suggests that harmony between Europeans and Indians will be maintained at all costs. The concept of cooperation extends to the background, where an Indian family gathers peacefully before a British military tent.. 
Puellae. Author Name: Magdalena Abakanowicz. . . Puellae is a bronze sculpture by Magdalena Abakanowicz.Consisting of 30 figures, created in 1982, it originally showed at the Marlborough Gallery.It was installed in 1999, at the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden.. Puellae is a bronze sculpture by Magdalena Abakanowicz. Consisting of 30 figures, created in 1982, it originally showed at the Marlborough Gallery. It was installed in 1999, at the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden.. 
The Judgement of Cambyses. Author Name: Gerard David. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . The Judgement of Cambyses is an oil on wood diptych by Dutch artist Gerard David, depicting the arrest and flaying of the corrupt Persian judge Sisamnes on the order of Cambyses, based on Herodotus's Histories. The diptych was commissioned in 1487/1488 by the municipal authorities of Bruges which requested a series of panels for the deputy burgomaster's room in the town hall.There are also other paintings with the same subject, such as that by Dirck Vellert from 1542.. The Judgement of Cambyses is an oil on wood diptych by Dutch artist Gerard David, depicting the arrest and flaying of the corrupt Persian judge Sisamnes on the order of Cambyses, based on Herodotus's Histories. The diptych was commissioned in 1487/1488 by the municipal authorities of Bruges which requested a series of panels for the deputy burgomaster's room in the town hall. The diptych was painted on oak panels and was first mentioned in the Bruges' archives as The Last Judgement. It was used by the town burghers to encourage honesty among the magistrates and as a symbolic public apology for the imprisonment of Maximilian I in Bruges in 1488. The top right corner of the flaying scene features Sisamnes' son dispensing justice from his father's chair, now draped with the flayed skin. There are also other paintings with the same subject, such as that by Dirck Vellert from 1542.. 
Portrait of Alfonso I d'Este. Author Name: Titian. . . The Portrait of Alfonso I d'Este is a now-lost painting by Titian, dating to 1523. It was painted as a pendant to the Portrait of Laura Dianti of the same year (Laura Dianti was Alfonso I d'Este's lover) and is now known through copies, one of which is by Rubens and another of which is held at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. Others are held in the collections of the countess of Vogüe Commarin at Dijon and the Statens Museum for Kunst in Copenhagen - the latter is the oldest but only shows the head and shoulders.. The Portrait of Alfonso I d'Este is a now-lost painting by Titian, dating to 1523. It was painted as a pendant to the Portrait of Laura Dianti of the same year (Laura Dianti was Alfonso I d'Este's lover) and is now known through copies, one of which is by Rubens and another of which is held at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. Others are held in the collections of the countess of Vogüe Commarin at Dijon and the Statens Museum for Kunst in Copenhagen - the latter is the oldest but only shows the head and shoulders. The painting showed its subject with his right hand on the muzzle of a cannon and his left hand on the hilt of his sword, underlining his martial prowess during a tense time in his relations with the papacy. It was an influence on Dosso Dossi's later portrait of the duke in a similar pose, leaning on a cannon. The original was seen by Vasari and admired by Michelangelo on the latter's visit to Ferrara in 1529. It was later given to Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor, who kept it for a time in Bologna before taking it to Spain. It is mentioned in the 1666 and 1686 inventories of the Royal Alcazar of Madrid, but disappeared during the 18th century.. 
Portrait of a Young Man. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Portrait of a Young Man with a Gold Chain is an oil painting usually attributed to the Dutch painter Rembrandt. Signed and dated 1635, it was traditionally regarded as a self-portrait (under the title Self-Portrait with Beard Rising or Self-Portrait with a Gold Chain), although contemporary criticism tends to challenge this hypothesis.. Portrait of a Young Man with a Gold Chain is an oil painting usually attributed to the Dutch painter Rembrandt. Signed and dated 1635, it was traditionally regarded as a self-portrait (under the title Self-Portrait with Beard Rising or Self-Portrait with a Gold Chain), although contemporary criticism tends to challenge this hypothesis. The accreditation of this work to Rembrandt is old and supported by various documents and graphic records dating back to the seventeenth century. However, a report by the Rembrandt Research Project in 1989 assigned it to the "circle" of the Dutch master. This new assignment was controversial: the opinion was challenged by Pietro Maria Bardi and Luiz Marques, among other experts, who credit the authorship of the painting to Rembrandt. The work is currently preserved at the São Paulo Museum of Art.. 
Frog Baby Fountain. Author Name: Parsons, Edith Barretto Stevens. . . Frog Baby Fountain is a statue set in the middle of a fountain on the Ball State University campus. It is known as a sign of good luck and is a popular meeting place. The Frog Baby Statue was cast by Edith Barretto Stevens Parsons in 1937 and has been moved several times prior to becoming what it is known as today. Frank Ball donated the statue to the university and it remained in the Ball State University Museum of Art until it became damaged by excessive rubbing by students, and was then packed away. In 1993, Frog Baby was restored and placed in a fountain where it resides today. The fountain is dedicated to Alexander Bracken, the son-in-law of Frank C. Ball, who was responsible for Ball State's rapid growth after World War II.. Frog Baby Fountain is a statue set in the middle of a fountain on the Ball State University campus. It is known as a sign of good luck and is a popular meeting place. The Frog Baby Statue was cast by Edith Barretto Stevens Parsons in 1937 and has been moved several times prior to becoming what it is known as today. Frank Ball donated the statue to the university and it remained in the Ball State University Museum of Art until it became damaged by excessive rubbing by students, and was then packed away. In 1993, Frog Baby was restored and placed in a fountain where it resides today. The fountain is dedicated to Alexander Bracken, the son-in-law of Frank C. Ball, who was responsible for Ball State's rapid growth after World War II.. 
Christ in the Desert. Author Name: Ivan Kramskoi. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Peredvizhniki. . Christ in the Desert, or Christ in the Wilderness (Russian: "Христос в пустыне") is a painting by Russian artist Ivan Kramskoi, reflecting the Fasting of Christ. Kramskoi was offered a professorship for the painting by the Russian Academy of Arts Council, but having learned that in the beginning of 1873, rejected it (he had been expelled from the Academy earlier, and chose to keep his "youthful commitment to independence from the Academy"). Subsequently it became one of the favourite paintings of Pavel Tretyakov, who bought it for his gallery in the year the painting was finished.. Christ in the Desert, or Christ in the Wilderness (Russian: "Христос в пустыне") is a painting by Russian artist Ivan Kramskoi, reflecting the Fasting of Christ. Kramskoi was offered a professorship for the painting by the Russian Academy of Arts Council, but having learned that in the beginning of 1873, rejected it (he had been expelled from the Academy earlier, and chose to keep his "youthful commitment to independence from the Academy"). Subsequently it became one of the favourite paintings of Pavel Tretyakov, who bought it for his gallery in the year the painting was finished.. 
Les Alyscamps. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Les Alyscamps (or 'L'Allée des Alyscamps') is a pair of paintings ("pendants") by Dutch painter Vincent van Gogh. Painted in 1888 in Arles, France, it depicts autumnal scenes in the Alyscamps, an ancient Roman necropolis in Arles which is lined with poplars and stone sarcophagi.Van Gogh also made another pair of paintings, Falling Autumn Leaves and Paul Gauguin made his own version of Les Alycamps.. Les Alyscamps (or 'L'Allée des Alyscamps') is a pair of paintings ("pendants") by Dutch painter Vincent van Gogh. Painted in 1888 in Arles, France, it depicts autumnal scenes in the Alyscamps, an ancient Roman necropolis in Arles which is lined with poplars and stone sarcophagi. Van Gogh also made another pair of paintings, Falling Autumn Leaves and Paul Gauguin made his own version of Les Alycamps.. 
The Battle of Gettysburg. Author Name: Philippoteaux, Paul. . . The Battle of Gettysburg, also known as the Gettysburg Cyclorama, is a cyclorama painting by the French artist Paul Philippoteaux depicting Pickett's Charge, the climactic Confederate attack on the Union forces during the Battle of Gettysburg on July 3, 1863. Four versions were painted, two of which are among the last surviving cycloramas in the United States.. The Battle of Gettysburg, also known as the Gettysburg Cyclorama, is a cyclorama painting by the French artist Paul Philippoteaux depicting Pickett's Charge, the climactic Confederate attack on the Union forces during the Battle of Gettysburg on July 3, 1863. Four versions were painted, two of which are among the last surviving cycloramas in the United States. The first version of the painting, completed in 1883 and originally exhibited in Chicago, was lost for some time. It was rediscovered in 1965 and purchased by a group of North Carolina investors in 2007 for an undisclosed amount. Until November 2005, the second painting, originally exhibited in the Cyclorama Building in Boston, was on display at the Gettysburg National Military Park. It was removed for restoration work and the exhibition was reopened September 2008 in the new Gettysburg Museum and Visitor Center. The third version, exhibited in Philadelphia, is known to have been destroyed. The location of the fourth version, originally exhibited in Brooklyn, is unknown.. 
Autumn Rhythm. Author Name: Jackson Pollock. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . Autumn Rhythm (Number 30) is a 1950 abstract expressionist drip painting by American artist Jackson Pollock. The work was purchased in 1957 by curator Robert Beverly Hale for the collection of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, where it remains on display. The painting consists of chaotic black, white and brown paint patterns on an unpainted canvas background.Pollock originally titled the painting Number 30, believing that titles affected how viewers perceived paintings, but was later retitled Autumn Rhythm'.[who?]. Autumn Rhythm (Number 30) is a 1950 abstract expressionist drip painting by American artist Jackson Pollock. The work was purchased in 1957 by curator Robert Beverly Hale for the collection of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, where it remains on display. The painting consists of chaotic black, white and brown paint patterns on an unpainted canvas background. Pollock originally titled the painting Number 30, believing that titles affected how viewers perceived paintings, but was later retitled Autumn Rhythm'.[who?] Hans Namuth's photographs of Pollock, which culminated in his 1980 book Pollock Painting, included images of Pollock painting Autumn Rhythm, which revealed that the painting was largely painted right-to-left. Researchers looking at the underlying fractal geometry of Pollock's work have estimated the fractal dimension of the drip patterns in Autumn Rhythm at 1.67.. 
The Proscribed Royalist, 1651. Author Name: Sir John Everett Millais, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pre-Raphaelite_Brotherhood. . The Proscribed Royalist, 1651 (1853) is a painting by John Everett Millais which depicts a young Puritan woman protecting a fleeing Royalist after the Battle of Worcester in 1651,[citation needed] the decisive defeat of Charles II by Oliver Cromwell. The Royalist is hiding in a hollow tree, a reference to a famous incident in which Charles himself hid in a tree to escape from his pursuers.[citation needed] Millais was also influenced by Vincenzo Bellini's opera I Puritani.[citation needed]Millais painted the picture in Hayes, Kent, from a local oak tree that became known as the Millais Oak.. The Proscribed Royalist, 1651 (1853) is a painting by John Everett Millais which depicts a young Puritan woman protecting a fleeing Royalist after the Battle of Worcester in 1651,[citation needed] the decisive defeat of Charles II by Oliver Cromwell. The Royalist is hiding in a hollow tree, a reference to a famous incident in which Charles himself hid in a tree to escape from his pursuers.[citation needed] Millais was also influenced by Vincenzo Bellini's opera I Puritani.[citation needed] Millais painted the picture in Hayes, Kent, from a local oak tree that became known as the Millais Oak.. 
Dream Caused by the Flight of a Bee. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Dream Caused by the Flight of a Bee Around a Pomegranate a Second Before Awakening (1944) is a surrealist painting by Salvador Dalí. A short, alternate title for the painting is Dream Caused by the Flight of a Bee. It was painted in 1944, while Dalí and his wife, Gala, were living in America.. Dream Caused by the Flight of a Bee Around a Pomegranate a Second Before Awakening (1944) is a surrealist painting by Salvador Dalí. A short, alternate title for the painting is Dream Caused by the Flight of a Bee. It was painted in 1944, while Dalí and his wife, Gala, were living in America.. 
Susanna and the Elders. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Susanna and the Elders is a painting by Flemish artist Peter Paul Rubens from 1607. It is housed in the Galleria Borghese in Rome, Italy.The painting is based on the story of Susanna, found in a deuterocanonical chapter of the biblical Book of Daniel.. Susanna and the Elders is a painting by Flemish artist Peter Paul Rubens from 1607. It is housed in the Galleria Borghese in Rome, Italy. The painting is based on the story of Susanna, found in a deuterocanonical chapter of the biblical Book of Daniel.. 
Tree Roots. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Tree Roots is an oil painting by Vincent van Gogh that he painted in July 1890 when he lived in Auvers-sur-Oise, France. The painting is an example of the double-square canvases that he employed in his last landscapes.. Tree Roots is an oil painting by Vincent van Gogh that he painted in July 1890 when he lived in Auvers-sur-Oise, France. The painting is an example of the double-square canvases that he employed in his last landscapes.. 
Spring Day. Author Name: Nikolai Matveevich Pozdneev. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Spring Day is a painting by the well-known Russian artist Nikolai Matveevich Pozdneev (1930–1978). It attempts to convey the mood of Soviet society of the late 1950s to the early 1960s.. Spring Day is a painting by the well-known Russian artist Nikolai Matveevich Pozdneev (1930–1978). It attempts to convey the mood of Soviet society of the late 1950s to the early 1960s.. 
Le Chemin, Paysage à Meudon. Author Name: Albert Gleizes. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_art. . Le Chemin, Paysage à Meudon also known as Paysage avec personage, is an oil on canvas painted in 1911 by the artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes. The work was exhibited at the Salon des Indépendants during the spring of 1911, Paris; Les Indépendants, Musée moderne de Bruxelles, 1911; Galeries J. Dalmau, Exposicio d'art cubista, Barcelona, 1912; Galerie La Boétie, Salon de La Section d'Or, 1912. Le Chemin was identified by Hector Feliciano as having been plundered by the Nazis from the home of collector Alphonse Kann during World War II. It was returned to the heirs of Alphonse Kann in July 1997 and placed at public auctions in New York (1999) and London (2010) respectively.. Le Chemin, Paysage à Meudon also known as Paysage avec personage, is an oil on canvas painted in 1911 by the artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes. The work was exhibited at the Salon des Indépendants during the spring of 1911, Paris; Les Indépendants, Musée moderne de Bruxelles, 1911; Galeries J. Dalmau, Exposicio d'art cubista, Barcelona, 1912; Galerie La Boétie, Salon de La Section d'Or, 1912. Le Chemin was identified by Hector Feliciano as having been plundered by the Nazis from the home of collector Alphonse Kann during World War II. It was returned to the heirs of Alphonse Kann in July 1997 and placed at public auctions in New York (1999) and London (2010) respectively.. 
The Music Lesson. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . The Music Lesson (French: La lecon de musique) is a 1917 oil painting by Henri Matisse painted during his time in Laurette.It is currently on display at the Barnes Foundation in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The painting is 96 3/8 x 79 in. (244.7 x 200.7 cm).. The Music Lesson (French: La lecon de musique) is a 1917 oil painting by Henri Matisse painted during his time in Laurette. It is currently on display at the Barnes Foundation in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The painting is 96 3/8 x 79 in. (244.7 x 200.7 cm).. 
Deposition from the Cross. Author Name: Pontormo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . The Deposition from the Cross is an altarpiece, completed in 1528, depicting the Deposition of Christ by the Italian Renaissance painter Jacopo Pontormo. It is broadly considered to be the artist's surviving masterpiece. Painted in oil on wood, the painting is located above the altar of the Capponi Chapel of the church of Santa Felicita in Florence.. The Deposition from the Cross is an altarpiece, completed in 1528, depicting the Deposition of Christ by the Italian Renaissance painter Jacopo Pontormo. It is broadly considered to be the artist's surviving masterpiece. Painted in oil on wood, the painting is located above the altar of the Capponi Chapel of the church of Santa Felicita in Florence.. 
Marsuppini Coronation. Author Name: Fra' Filippo Lippi, O.Carm.. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Marsuppini Coronation is a painting of the Coronation of the Virgin by the Italian Renaissance painter Filippo Lippi, dating to after 1444. It is in the Pinacoteca Vaticana, Rome.. The Marsuppini Coronation is a painting of the Coronation of the Virgin by the Italian Renaissance painter Filippo Lippi, dating to after 1444. It is in the Pinacoteca Vaticana, Rome.. 
Susanna and the Elders. Author Name: Lorenzo Lotto. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Susanna and the Elders is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Lorenzo Lotto, dating from 1517. It is housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence. The work has the signature LOTUS PICTOR 1517.. Susanna and the Elders is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Lorenzo Lotto, dating from 1517. It is housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence. The work has the signature LOTUS PICTOR 1517.. 
Judith and Holofernes. Author Name: Donatello. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The bronze sculpture Judith and Holofernes (1460), created by Donatello at the end of his career, can be seen in the Hall of Lilies (Sala dei Gigli), in the Palazzo Vecchio, Florence, Italy. A copy stands in one of the sculpture's original positions on the Piazza della Signoria, in front of the Palazzo Vecchio. It depicts the assassination of the Assyrian general Holofernes by Judith and is remarkable for being one of the first Renaissance sculptures to be conceived in the round, with its four distinct faces.. The bronze sculpture Judith and Holofernes (1460), created by Donatello at the end of his career, can be seen in the Hall of Lilies (Sala dei Gigli), in the Palazzo Vecchio, Florence, Italy. A copy stands in one of the sculpture's original positions on the Piazza della Signoria, in front of the Palazzo Vecchio. It depicts the assassination of the Assyrian general Holofernes by Judith and is remarkable for being one of the first Renaissance sculptures to be conceived in the round, with its four distinct faces. The statue was commissioned by Cosimo de' Medici as a decoration for the fountain in the garden of the Palazzo Medici-Riccardi. It stood in this palace together with Donatello's David, standing in the courtyard, both depicting tyrant slayers. These two statues are among the earliest freestanding bronze Italian Renaissance statues conceived "in the round". Judith is considered the symbol of liberty, virtue and victory of the weak over the strong in a just cause. She stands powerful with raised sword, holding the head of Holofernes by his hair. The statue was originally gilded and its shine in the sunlight must have made the onlookers stare at it; some gilding remains on the sword. To facilitate the gilding the bronze was cast in 11 parts. The base of the sculpture resembles a cushion, a naturalistic device first used by Donatello for his St. Mark in the Orsanmichele. It is believed that an inscription on the granite pedestal originally read, "Kingdoms fall through luxury [sin], cities rise through virtues. Behold the neck of pride severed by the hand of humility." This dramatic and detailed statue is thus a metaphor of the Medici rule, as the defenders of Florentine liberty, akin to Judith, slayer of the tyrant Holofernes and defender of the people. This view is supported by accounts that mention a second inscription on the pedestal which read, "The salvation of the state. Piero de' Medici son of Cosimo dedicated this statue of a woman both to liberty and to fortitude, whereby the citizens with unvanquished and constant heart might return to the republic." Inscribed on the cushion are the words (the work of the Florentine, Donatello), this being the only surviving signed work by the artist. In 1495, the sculpture was placed on the Piazza della Signoria, at the side of main door the Palazzo Vecchio, in memory of the expulsion of Piero di Lorenzo de' Medici from Florence and the introduction of the Florentine republic under Girolamo Savonarola. This time, this statue symbolized the expulsion of the tyrannical Medici. The statue was later moved to the courtyard inside the Palazzo Vecchio, and still later into the Loggia dei Lanzi. In 1919, it was then placed on the left side of the Palazzo Vecchio. It was replaced by a bronze copy in 1988 and the original, after restoration, was given a final place in the Sala dei Gigli inside the Palazzo Vecchio.. 
The Blue Kitchen. Author Name: Karsten, Ludvig. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neo-impressionism. . The Blue Kitchen (Norwegian: Det blå kjøkken; dated 1913) is the title of a neo-impressionist painting by Norwegian artist Ludvig Karsten, showing a kitchen table ready for breakfast, while the morning sun is shining through the window.The Blue Kitchen is regarded among Karsten's most important paintings. It is located at the National Gallery in Oslo.. The Blue Kitchen (Norwegian: Det blå kjøkken; dated 1913) is the title of a neo-impressionist painting by Norwegian artist Ludvig Karsten, showing a kitchen table ready for breakfast, while the morning sun is shining through the window. The Blue Kitchen is regarded among Karsten's most important paintings. It is located at the National Gallery in Oslo. In 1913 Karsten was newly married, and the couple moved from Copenhagen to the Norwegian island Hvasser. Sources differ whether Blue Kitchen is painted in Copenhagen or Hvasser. The painting was bought by art collector Christian Tetzen-Lund in 1913. In his notebook he called it Det blaa Vindue, and he had paid a price of NOK 125. The blue Kitchen was first publicly exhibited at The Autumn Exhibition in Kristiania in 1913, and also at an exhibition in Copenhagen later the same year. The National Gallery acquired the painting after offering a price of NOK 800.. 
Sleeping Venus. Author Name: Annibale Carracci. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Sleeping Venus (also known as Sleeping Venus with Putti) is a c. 1603 painting by Annibale Carracci held by the Musée Condé in Chantilly, Oise, France. This oil painting measures 190x328cm. It depicts Venus sleeping with her arm above her head as putti frolic around her. Carracci painted Sleeping Venus for Odoardo Farnese. Giovanni Battista Agucchi wrote an ekphrasis of this painting that Carlo Cesare Malvasia included in his book Life of the Carracci. In The Lives of the Modern Painters, Sculptors and Architects, Giovanni Pietro Bellori wrote a description of the painting that paraphrases Agucchi's ekphrasis without citation.. Sleeping Venus (also known as Sleeping Venus with Putti) is a c. 1603 painting by Annibale Carracci held by the Musée Condé in Chantilly, Oise, France. This oil painting measures 190x328cm. It depicts Venus sleeping with her arm above her head as putti frolic around her. Carracci painted Sleeping Venus for Odoardo Farnese. Giovanni Battista Agucchi wrote an ekphrasis of this painting that Carlo Cesare Malvasia included in his book Life of the Carracci. In The Lives of the Modern Painters, Sculptors and Architects, Giovanni Pietro Bellori wrote a description of the painting that paraphrases Agucchi's ekphrasis without citation.. 
The Death of Actaeon. Author Name: Titian. . . The Death of Actaeon is a late work by Italian Renaissance master Titian, painted in 1559 to 1575 as an oil on canvas and now housed in the National Gallery of London, United Kingdom. It is probably one of the two paintings the artist states he has started and hopes to finish (one of which he calls "Actaeon mauled by hounds") in a letter to their commissioner Philip II of Spain during June 1559. However, most of Titian's work on this painting possibly dates to the mid-1560s, and as Titian seems never to have resolved it to his satisfaction, the painting remained in his studio until his death in 1576.. The Death of Actaeon is a late work by Italian Renaissance master Titian, painted in 1559 to 1575 as an oil on canvas and now housed in the National Gallery of London, United Kingdom. It is probably one of the two paintings the artist states he has started and hopes to finish (one of which he calls "Actaeon mauled by hounds") in a letter to their commissioner Philip II of Spain during June 1559. However, most of Titian's work on this painting possibly dates to the mid-1560s, and as Titian seems never to have resolved it to his satisfaction, the painting remained in his studio until his death in 1576. It is a sequel of Titian's work Diana and Actaeon showing the story's tragic conclusion, which approximately follows the Roman poet Ovid's account in the Metamorphoses: after Actaeon surprised the goddess Diana bathing naked in the woods, she transformed him into a stag and he was attacked and killed by his own hounds. Both paintings belong to a group of large-scale mythological paintings inspired by the Metamorphoses and referred to by Titian himself as ‘poesie’, the visual equivalent of poetry, which he began producing for Philip II of Spain in 1551 and which also include Danaë and Venus and Adonis (Museo del Prado, Madrid), Perseus and Andromeda (Wallace Collection, London), The Rape of Europa (Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum, Boston) and Diana and Callisto (National Gallery). The public campaign in 1971 to buy it for the United Kingdom was one of the great successes of Martin Davies's directorship of the National Gallery and it was eventually purchased in 1972 with a special grant and Art Fund and Pilgrim Trust contributions, as well as via funds raised by a public appeal. As catalogue number NG6420, it now usually hangs in the Central Hall.. 
Young man playing the lute. Author Name: Judith Leyster. . . Young man playing the lute is an oil painting in the collection of the Rijksmuseum that is a period copy of the same subject by Frans Hals. It was acquired by the museum as a painting by Frans Hals and was skipped by the researcher Juliane Harms in 1927, being finally attributed to Leyster by Seymour Slive in 1974.. Young man playing the lute is an oil painting in the collection of the Rijksmuseum that is a period copy of the same subject by Frans Hals. It was acquired by the museum as a painting by Frans Hals and was skipped by the researcher Juliane Harms in 1927, being finally attributed to Leyster by Seymour Slive in 1974.. 
Veronica Veronese. Author Name: Dante Gabriel Rossetti. . . Veronica Veronese is an oil painting by Dante Gabriel Rossetti painted in 1872 with Alexa Wilding as the model. The painting was conceived as a companion to Lady Lilith. Rossetti sold the painting to one of his best clients, shipping magnate Frederick Richards Leyland. In 1923 it was acquired by the estate of Samuel Bancroft which donated it in 1935 to the Delaware Art Museum where it is now displayed.. Veronica Veronese is an oil painting by Dante Gabriel Rossetti painted in 1872 with Alexa Wilding as the model. The painting was conceived as a companion to Lady Lilith. Rossetti sold the painting to one of his best clients, shipping magnate Frederick Richards Leyland. In 1923 it was acquired by the estate of Samuel Bancroft which donated it in 1935 to the Delaware Art Museum where it is now displayed.. 
Cannon Rock. Author Name: Winslow Homer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Cannon Rock is an 1895 oil painting by Winslow Homer. It is part of the Metropolitan Museum of Art's collection.. Cannon Rock is an 1895 oil painting by Winslow Homer. It is part of the Metropolitan Museum of Art's collection.. 
Sunset at Montmajour. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Sunset at Montmajour is a landscape in oils painted by the Dutch artist Vincent van Gogh in July 1888. It was painted while the artist was at Arles, France and depicts a landscape of garrigue with the ruins of Montmajour Abbey in the background. The painting is 73.3 cm × 93.3 cm (28.9 in × 36.7 in) and was on display from 24 September 2013 until 12 January 2014 as part of an exhibition at the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam.. Sunset at Montmajour is a landscape in oils painted by the Dutch artist Vincent van Gogh in July 1888. It was painted while the artist was at Arles, France and depicts a landscape of garrigue with the ruins of Montmajour Abbey in the background. The painting is 73.3 cm × 93.3 cm (28.9 in × 36.7 in) and was on display from 24 September 2013 until 12 January 2014 as part of an exhibition at the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam. Its authenticity was questioned several times before it was confirmed as a genuine van Gogh work in 2013. It is the first full-sized painting by Van Gogh to be newly confirmed since 1928.. 
Annunciation. Author Name: Ambrogio Lorenzetti. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Gothic_art. . The Annunciation is a painting by the Italian late medieval painter Ambrogio Lorenzetti, signed and dated 1344, now housed in the Pinacoteca Nazionale of Siena, Italy.It was painted for the Ufficio della Gabella ("Office of the Tax") of the commune of Siena, as specified by two-line signature at the bottom (the painter named himself Ambruogio Lorenzi). It was originally located in the Consistory Hall of the Palazzo Pubblico.. The Annunciation is a painting by the Italian late medieval painter Ambrogio Lorenzetti, signed and dated 1344, now housed in the Pinacoteca Nazionale of Siena, Italy. It was painted for the Ufficio della Gabella ("Office of the Tax") of the commune of Siena, as specified by two-line signature at the bottom (the painter named himself Ambruogio Lorenzi). It was originally located in the Consistory Hall of the Palazzo Pubblico.. 
Girl in Mirror. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Girl in Mirror (sometimes Girl in the Mirror) is a 1964 porcelain-enamel-on-steel pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein that is considered to exist in between eight and ten editions. One edition was part of a $14 million 2012 lawsuit regarding a 2009 sale, while another sold in 2010 for $4.9 million. Although it uses Ben-Day dots like many other Lichtenstein works, it was inspired by the New York City Subway rather than directly from a panel of a romance comics work.. Girl in Mirror (sometimes Girl in the Mirror) is a 1964 porcelain-enamel-on-steel pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein that is considered to exist in between eight and ten editions. One edition was part of a $14 million 2012 lawsuit regarding a 2009 sale, while another sold in 2010 for $4.9 million. Although it uses Ben-Day dots like many other Lichtenstein works, it was inspired by the New York City Subway rather than directly from a panel of a romance comics work.. 
East Wind Over Weehawken. Author Name: Edward Hopper. . . East Wind Over Weehawken is an oil painting on canvas by American realist painter Edward Hopper. It was held in the collection of the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts in the United States from 1954 until its sale to an anonymous buyer in December 2013. That sale brought a record price for a Hopper.. East Wind Over Weehawken is an oil painting on canvas by American realist painter Edward Hopper. It was held in the collection of the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts in the United States from 1954 until its sale to an anonymous buyer in December 2013. That sale brought a record price for a Hopper.. 
Night Train. Author Name: Paul Delvaux. . . Night Train (Le train de nuit) is a 1947 surrealist painting by Belgian artist Paul Delvaux, famous for his paintings of female nudes. The painting is 153 x 210 centimetres and is currently housed in the Museum of Modern Art, Toyama.Trapped in a loveless marriage, Delvaux wished "to paint boredom, sadness and the desire to get away from it all... There is this nostalgic aspect about waiting rooms where people pass by briefly before leaving... I tried to capture the beauty of the waiting room in an empty station. People are not necessary, for a station has its own life".. Night Train (Le train de nuit) is a 1947 surrealist painting by Belgian artist Paul Delvaux, famous for his paintings of female nudes. The painting is 153 x 210 centimetres and is currently housed in the Museum of Modern Art, Toyama. Trapped in a loveless marriage, Delvaux wished "to paint boredom, sadness and the desire to get away from it all... There is this nostalgic aspect about waiting rooms where people pass by briefly before leaving... I tried to capture the beauty of the waiting room in an empty station. People are not necessary, for a station has its own life". According to the Christie's, this work is "a powerful poetic expression of the overwhelming sense of paralysis and imprisonment Delvaux was experiencing at the time":. 
Gustav Vasas intåg i Stockholm 1523. Author Name: Carl Larsson. . . Gustav Vasas intåg i Stockholm 1523 (or Gustav Vasa enters Stockholm 1523) is a painting painted for the Nationalmuseum in Stockholm by the Swedish painter Carl Larsson. It was completed in 1908. The painting depicts Gustav Vasa of Sweden as he is about to enter Stockholm in 1523 to be king.Larsson started planning to paint the picture in 1897, but was not allowed to start working until November 1906. The canvasses were largely completed by November 1907, and were hung on the walls on Nationalmuseum on January 28, 1908.. Gustav Vasas intåg i Stockholm 1523 (or Gustav Vasa enters Stockholm 1523) is a painting painted for the Nationalmuseum in Stockholm by the Swedish painter Carl Larsson. It was completed in 1908. The painting depicts Gustav Vasa of Sweden as he is about to enter Stockholm in 1523 to be king. Larsson started planning to paint the picture in 1897, but was not allowed to start working until November 1906. The canvasses were largely completed by November 1907, and were hung on the walls on Nationalmuseum on January 28, 1908.. 
Madonna of Loreto. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Madonna of Loreto is a painting finished around 1508–1509 by the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael. It is housed in the Musée Condé of Chantilly, France.For centuries the painting kept company with the Portrait of Pope Julius II, first at the Santa Maria del Popolo, then in private collections, and for a time their location was unknown. Their ownership, or provenance, has been difficult to unravel because of the number of copies of both paintings, the unclear ownership chain, misinformation and delay of publication of vital information.. The Madonna of Loreto is a painting finished around 1508–1509 by the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael. It is housed in the Musée Condé of Chantilly, France. For centuries the painting kept company with the Portrait of Pope Julius II, first at the Santa Maria del Popolo, then in private collections, and for a time their location was unknown. Their ownership, or provenance, has been difficult to unravel because of the number of copies of both paintings, the unclear ownership chain, misinformation and delay of publication of vital information. For instance, this painting received its name from a copy at the Basilica della Santa Casa in Loreto which was at one time thought to be the original. Now is it certain that the painting at Loreto was a copy – and therefore the painting name is a misnomer. Even so, the well-copied painting has been a beloved and critically acclaimed painting for centuries.. 
Nana. Author Name: Édouard Manet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Nana is a painting by French painter Édouard Manet. It was completed in 1877 and was refused at the Salon of Paris the same year. The work is now at the Kunsthalle Hamburg art museum in Germany.. Nana is a painting by French painter Édouard Manet. It was completed in 1877 and was refused at the Salon of Paris the same year. The work is now at the Kunsthalle Hamburg art museum in Germany.. 
Golf Ball. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Golf Ball (sometimes Golfball) is a 1962 painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It is considered to fall within the art movement known as Pop art. It depicts "a single sphere with patterned, variously directional semi-circular grooves." The work is commonly associated with black-and-white Piet Mondrian works. It is one of the works that was presented at Lichtenstein's first solo exhibition and one that was critical to his early association with pop art. The work is commonly critiqued for its tension involving a three-dimensional representation in two dimensions with much discussion revolving around the choice of a background nearly without any perspective.. Golf Ball (sometimes Golfball) is a 1962 painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It is considered to fall within the art movement known as Pop art. It depicts "a single sphere with patterned, variously directional semi-circular grooves." The work is commonly associated with black-and-white Piet Mondrian works. It is one of the works that was presented at Lichtenstein's first solo exhibition and one that was critical to his early association with pop art. The work is commonly critiqued for its tension involving a three-dimensional representation in two dimensions with much discussion revolving around the choice of a background nearly without any perspective.. 
Surrender of Lord Cornwallis. Author Name: John Trumbull. . . The Surrender of Lord Cornwallis is an oil painting by John Trumbull. The painting was completed in 1820, and hangs in the rotunda of the United States Capitol in Washington, D. C.The painting depicts the surrender of British Major General Charles, Earl Cornwallis at Yorktown, Virginia on October 19, 1781, ending the Siege of Yorktown, and virtually guaranteeing American independence. Included in the depiction are many leaders of the American troops that took part in the siege.. The Surrender of Lord Cornwallis is an oil painting by John Trumbull. The painting was completed in 1820, and hangs in the rotunda of the United States Capitol in Washington, D. C. The painting depicts the surrender of British Major General Charles, Earl Cornwallis at Yorktown, Virginia on October 19, 1781, ending the Siege of Yorktown, and virtually guaranteeing American independence. Included in the depiction are many leaders of the American troops that took part in the siege.. 
Lamentation of Christ. Author Name: Albrecht Dürer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Lamentation of Christ is an oil-on-panel painting attributed to German Renaissance artist Albrecht Dürer, executed around 1498 and currently housed in the Germanisches Nationalmuseum of Nuremberg, Germany.The work was executed for the family chapel of Karl Holzschuher in the church of Sankt Johannis in Nuremberg. Dürer's monogram can be seen in the corner of Jesus' white shroud, but it is commonly considered to be apocriphal.. Lamentation of Christ is an oil-on-panel painting attributed to German Renaissance artist Albrecht Dürer, executed around 1498 and currently housed in the Germanisches Nationalmuseum of Nuremberg, Germany. The work was executed for the family chapel of Karl Holzschuher in the church of Sankt Johannis in Nuremberg. Dürer's monogram can be seen in the corner of Jesus' white shroud, but it is commonly considered to be apocriphal.. 
The Singel Bridge at the Paleisstraat in Amsterdam. Author Name: George Hendrik Breitner. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/19th-century_Dutch_literature. . The Singel Bridge at the Paleisstraat in Amsterdam (Dutch: De Singelbrug bij de Paleisstraat in Amsterdam) is an oil painting made by George Hendrik Breitner in 1896 or 1898. The painting shows people walking on the Singel Bridge at the Paleisstraat in Amsterdam. The work is oil on canvas of 100 cm (39 in) by 152 cm (60 in). The painting is in the collection of the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam.. The Singel Bridge at the Paleisstraat in Amsterdam (Dutch: De Singelbrug bij de Paleisstraat in Amsterdam) is an oil painting made by George Hendrik Breitner in 1896 or 1898. The painting shows people walking on the Singel Bridge at the Paleisstraat in Amsterdam. The work is oil on canvas of 100 cm (39 in) by 152 cm (60 in). The painting is in the collection of the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam.. 
Peace Concluded, 1856. Author Name: Sir John Everett Millais, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pre-Raphaelite_Brotherhood. . Peace Concluded, 1856 (1856) is a painting by John Everett Millais which depicts a wounded British officer reading The Times newspaper's report of the end of the Crimean War. It was exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1856 to mixed reviews, but was strongly endorsed by the critic John Ruskin who proclaimed that in the future it would be recognised as "among the world's best masterpieces". The central figure in the painting is a portrait of Millais's wife Effie Gray, who had previously been married to Ruskin.. Peace Concluded, 1856 (1856) is a painting by John Everett Millais which depicts a wounded British officer reading The Times newspaper's report of the end of the Crimean War. It was exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1856 to mixed reviews, but was strongly endorsed by the critic John Ruskin who proclaimed that in the future it would be recognised as "among the world's best masterpieces". The central figure in the painting is a portrait of Millais's wife Effie Gray, who had previously been married to Ruskin.. 
Blue and Green Music. Author Name: Georgia O'Keeffe. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/American_modernism. . Blue and Green Music is a 1919 - 1921 painting by the American painter Georgia O'Keeffe.Painted in her New York years upon the idea that music could be translated into something for the eye, Blue and Green Music is a work of rhythm, movement, color, depth, and form. It is also one of the paintings that was expressed by her feelings.. Blue and Green Music is a 1919 - 1921 painting by the American painter Georgia O'Keeffe. Painted in her New York years upon the idea that music could be translated into something for the eye, Blue and Green Music is a work of rhythm, movement, color, depth, and form. It is also one of the paintings that was expressed by her feelings.. 
La Fuensanta. Author Name: Julio Romero de Torres. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Symbolist_movement_in_Romania. . La Fuensanta is a portrait painting by Spanish artist Julio Romero de Torres depicting Maria Teresa López González, oneof Torres' models. Gonzalez is depicted with her arms resting on a copper cauldron. The painting was made in the autumn of 1929, when Torres completed another two artworks, La Chiquita Piconera and Bodegas Cruz Conde.. La Fuensanta is a portrait painting by Spanish artist Julio Romero de Torres depicting Maria Teresa López González, oneof Torres' models. Gonzalez is depicted with her arms resting on a copper cauldron. The painting was made in the autumn of 1929, when Torres completed another two artworks, La Chiquita Piconera and Bodegas Cruz Conde. Born in Argentina, González moved with her family to Torres' native town of Córdoba after World War I. Since she first sat for Torres at the age of fourteen, González became one of his favourite models whose likeness is most closely associated to Torres. The painting is considered a quintessential rendition of Andalusian beauty and became imbedded in the Spanish national conscience during the 25 years of its depiction on the 100 peseta banknote.. 
The Reading. Author Name: Édouard Manet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Reading is an oil painting by French painter Édouard Manet, circa 1865 - 1873.. The Reading is an oil painting by French painter Édouard Manet, circa 1865 - 1873.. 
Spirit of Communication. Author Name: Evelyn Beatrice Longman. . . Spirit of Communication is the formal name for a statue originally called Genius of Telegraphy when it was completed, and has been the symbol of AT&T (and also the former Western Electric) since 1914. It is also known informally as the Golden Boy statue.In 2009, the statue was relocated to AT&T's current corporate headquarters in downtown Dallas, Texas, USA.. Spirit of Communication is the formal name for a statue originally called Genius of Telegraphy when it was completed, and has been the symbol of AT&T (and also the former Western Electric) since 1914. It is also known informally as the Golden Boy statue. In 2009, the statue was relocated to AT&T's current corporate headquarters in downtown Dallas, Texas, USA.. 
Pietà or Revolution by Night. Author Name: Max Ernst. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dada. . Pietà or Revolution by Night (Pietà ou La révolution la nuit) (1923) is a painting by German surrealist and Dadaist Max Ernst.The painting is interpreted as symbolic of the turbulent relationship between the artist and his father, as an amateur painter and staunch Catholic. In the painting, Ernst replaces the classic image of the Virgin Mary holding the crucified body of Jesus (pietà) with his father as Mary and the artist himself as Jesus. The expressions on both faces are blank as though in a state of sleepwalking.Since 1981 it has been part of the collection of the Tate Gallery in London.. Pietà or Revolution by Night (Pietà ou La révolution la nuit) (1923) is a painting by German surrealist and Dadaist Max Ernst. The painting is interpreted as symbolic of the turbulent relationship between the artist and his father, as an amateur painter and staunch Catholic. In the painting, Ernst replaces the classic image of the Virgin Mary holding the crucified body of Jesus (pietà) with his father as Mary and the artist himself as Jesus. The expressions on both faces are blank as though in a state of sleepwalking. In the background drawn on a wall is a man with a bandaged head ascending a flight of stairs. A profile on the work in the British newspaper The Guardian indicates the figure could represent either Sigmund Freud or the French poet Guillaume Apollinaire, who suffered a head wound during World War I. Pietà or Revolution by Night is an example of the early period of the surrealist movement. Its title reflects the revolutionary sentiments of the movement, and in particular of its founder, André Breton. This image is notable for its combination of heavily textured surfaces and sharp, hand-drawn outlines. Since 1981 it has been part of the collection of the Tate Gallery in London.. 
No 1. Author Name: Mark Rothko. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_expressionism. . No 1 (Royal Red and Blue) is a 1954 Color Field painting by the Abstract expressionist artist Mark Rothko. In November 2012, the painting sold for US$75.1 million (£47.2m) at a Sotheby's auction.. No 1 (Royal Red and Blue) is a 1954 Color Field painting by the Abstract expressionist artist Mark Rothko. In November 2012, the painting sold for US$75.1 million (£47.2m) at a Sotheby's auction.. 
Crucifixion with the Virgin and Saint John. Author Name: Hendrick ter Brugghen. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Utrecht_Caravaggism. . Crucifixion with the Virgin and St John by Hendrick ter Brugghen is an oil painting, now in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. It was probably painted in about 1625 as an altarpiece for a Catholic schuilkerk, a "hidden church" or "church in the attic", in the Calvinist Dutch United Provinces, probably Utrecht. When discovered in a bombed out church in South Hackney, London in 1956, it was unknown, but by the time it appeared in Sotheby's salesroom in November of that year it was recognized as an important example of Utrecht Caravaggism. It was acquired by the museum in the sale.. Crucifixion with the Virgin and St John by Hendrick ter Brugghen is an oil painting, now in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. It was probably painted in about 1625 as an altarpiece for a Catholic schuilkerk, a "hidden church" or "church in the attic", in the Calvinist Dutch United Provinces, probably Utrecht. When discovered in a bombed out church in South Hackney, London in 1956, it was unknown, but by the time it appeared in Sotheby's salesroom in November of that year it was recognized as an important example of Utrecht Caravaggism. It was acquired by the museum in the sale.. 
The Entombment. Author Name: Titian. . . The Entombment is a 1559 painting by Titian, commissioned by Philip II of Spain. In this painting, Tizian uses the mature style characterized by the use of broad brushwork and brilliant colours. The figure holding Christ body is Nicodemus, the Jewish elder that secretly visited Jesus at night to learn about his teachings. The figure of Nicodemus bears the traits of the artist himself. This could have been inspired by Michelangelo's idea in his unfinished Pietà from 1550, depicting himself as Nicodemus, supporting the body of Christ displayed in the Cathedral in Florence. The stone sarcophagus where Christ body is placed is decorated with depictions of Cain and Abel and the Sacrifice of Isaac - themes that according to the Christian faith predicted the sacrifice of Jesus.. The Entombment is a 1559 painting by Titian, commissioned by Philip II of Spain. In this painting, Tizian uses the mature style characterized by the use of broad brushwork and brilliant colours. The figure holding Christ body is Nicodemus, the Jewish elder that secretly visited Jesus at night to learn about his teachings. The figure of Nicodemus bears the traits of the artist himself. This could have been inspired by Michelangelo's idea in his unfinished Pietà from 1550, depicting himself as Nicodemus, supporting the body of Christ displayed in the Cathedral in Florence. The stone sarcophagus where Christ body is placed is decorated with depictions of Cain and Abel and the Sacrifice of Isaac - themes that according to the Christian faith predicted the sacrifice of Jesus.. 
Abraham Lincoln: The Head of State. Author Name: Augustus Saint-Gaudens. . . Abraham Lincoln: The Head of State (also called Seated Lincoln or Sitting Lincoln) is a (9-foot (2.7 m)) tall bronze statue of Abraham Lincoln in Grant Park, in Chicago. Created by Augustus Saint-Gaudens and completed by his workshop in 1908, it was intended by the artist to evoke the loneliness and burden of command felt by Lincoln during his presidency. The sculpture depicts a contemplative Lincoln seated in a chair, and gazing down into the distance. The sculpture is set upon a pedestal and a 150 foot wide exedra designed by architect Stanford White.. Abraham Lincoln: The Head of State (also called Seated Lincoln or Sitting Lincoln) is a (9-foot (2.7 m)) tall bronze statue of Abraham Lincoln in Grant Park, in Chicago. Created by Augustus Saint-Gaudens and completed by his workshop in 1908, it was intended by the artist to evoke the loneliness and burden of command felt by Lincoln during his presidency. The sculpture depicts a contemplative Lincoln seated in a chair, and gazing down into the distance. The sculpture is set upon a pedestal and a 150 foot wide exedra designed by architect Stanford White. Although not as well known as Saint-Gaudens' Standing Lincoln (in Lincoln Park), it does demonstrate the years of attention that the sculptor gave to capturing Lincoln in a most somber light. Prior to being installed in Grant Park in 1926, the sculpture was displayed at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City and at the San Francisco World's Fair in 1915. The section of Grant Park, where this statue of Lincoln is located, was designated as the Court of Presidents in the plan for the park but, to date, this is the only such monument that has been erected.. 
Still Life with Geraniums. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . Still Life with Geraniums is a 1910 oil on canvas painting by Henri Matisse.It is in the collection of Pinakothek der Moderne, Munich, Germany, to whom it was given in 1912, thus becoming, according to the museum, the first Matisse to enter a public collection. It was one of six paintings in the museum's collection to survive World War II.. Still Life with Geraniums is a 1910 oil on canvas painting by Henri Matisse. It is in the collection of Pinakothek der Moderne, Munich, Germany, to whom it was given in 1912, thus becoming, according to the museum, the first Matisse to enter a public collection. It was one of six paintings in the museum's collection to survive World War II. The painting should not be confused with Matisse's 1906 painting Still Life with a Geranium, which is held by the Art Institute of Chicago, or his 1912 painting Pot of Geraniums in the National Gallery of Art. (Juan Gris also painted Pot of Geraniums in 1915, sold at auction in 2007.). 
America's Response Monument,. Author Name: Blumberg, Douwe. . . America's Response Monument, subtitled De Oppresso Liber, is a life-and-a-half scale bronze statue in front of One World Trade Center, across from the National September 11 Memorial in New York City. Unofficially known as the Horse Soldier Statue, it is the first public monument dedicated to the United States Special Forces.The statue commemorates the servicemen and women of America’s Special Operations response to 9/11, including those who fought in the early days of Operation Enduring Freedom. This operation led to the initial defeat of the Taliban in Afghanistan.. America's Response Monument, subtitled De Oppresso Liber, is a life-and-a-half scale bronze statue in front of One World Trade Center, across from the National September 11 Memorial in New York City. Unofficially known as the Horse Soldier Statue, it is the first public monument dedicated to the United States Special Forces. The statue was conceived by sculptor Douwe Blumberg and commissioned by an anonymous group of Wall Street bankers who lost friends in the 9/11 attacks. It was dedicated on November 11, 2011 in a ceremony led by Vice President Joe Biden and Lt. Gen. John Mulholland, commander of U.S. Army Special Operations Command. The statue commemorates the servicemen and women of America’s Special Operations response to 9/11, including those who fought in the early days of Operation Enduring Freedom. This operation led to the initial defeat of the Taliban in Afghanistan.. 
Last Supper. Author Name: Tintoretto. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Last Supper is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Jacopo Tintoretto. An oil painting on canvas executed in 1592–94, it is housed in the Basilica di San Giorgio Maggiore in Venice, northern Italy.. The Last Supper is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Jacopo Tintoretto. An oil painting on canvas executed in 1592–94, it is housed in the Basilica di San Giorgio Maggiore in Venice, northern Italy.. 
Sólfar. Author Name: Arnason, Jon Gunnar. . . Sun Voyager (Icelandic: Sólfar) is sculpture by Jón Gunnar Árnason (1931 - 1989). Sun Voyager is a dreamboat, an ode to the sun. Intrinsically, it contains within itself the promise of undiscovered territory, a dream of hope, progress and freedom. The sculpture is located by Sæbraut, by the sea in the centre of Reykjavík, Iceland.. Sun Voyager (Icelandic: Sólfar) is sculpture by Jón Gunnar Árnason (1931 - 1989). Sun Voyager is a dreamboat, an ode to the sun. Intrinsically, it contains within itself the promise of undiscovered territory, a dream of hope, progress and freedom. The sculpture is located by Sæbraut, by the sea in the centre of Reykjavík, Iceland.. 
Campbell's Soup Cans II. Author Name: Andy Warhol. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Campbell's Soup Cans II is a work of art produced in 1969 by Andy Warhol as part of his Campbell's Soup Cans series. 250 sets of this print were made, and edition #17 is in the collection at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago. It consists of ten prints:. Campbell's Soup Cans II is a work of art produced in 1969 by Andy Warhol as part of his Campbell's Soup Cans series. 250 sets of this print were made, and edition #17 is in the collection at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago. It consists of ten prints:. 
The Tribute Money. Author Name: Masaccio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Tribute Money is a fresco by the Italian renaissance painter Masaccio, located in the Brancacci Chapel of the basilica of Santa Maria del Carmine, Florence, and completed by his senior collaborator, Masolino. Painted in the 1420s, it is widely considered among Masaccio's best work, and a vital part of the development of renaissance art.. The Tribute Money is a fresco by the Italian renaissance painter Masaccio, located in the Brancacci Chapel of the basilica of Santa Maria del Carmine, Florence, and completed by his senior collaborator, Masolino. Painted in the 1420s, it is widely considered among Masaccio's best work, and a vital part of the development of renaissance art. The painting is part of a cycle on the life of Saint Peter, and describes a scene from the Gospel of Matthew, in which Jesus directs Peter to find a coin in the mouth of a fish in order to pay the temple tax. It owes its importance in particular to its revolutionary use of perspective and chiaroscuro. The Tribute Money suffered great damage in the centuries after its creation, until the chapel went through a thorough restoration in the 1980s.. 
King Edward VII Memorial. Author Name: Albert Toft. . . The King Edward VII Memorial is a sculpture in memory of King Edward VII, located in Centenary Square, Birmingham, England.In 1910, the Birmingham Mail launched an appeal to erect a statue to Edward VII, in order to commemorate his reign. Over £5,000 was quickly raised and an area was allocated within Birmingham Children's Hospital (then located on Ladywood Road near Five Ways) for its location.The statue was the subject of theft in the 1970s and 1980s, beginning with the theft of Saint George's lance and then the three bronze groups in 1985 and 1986, none of which have been recovered.. The King Edward VII Memorial is a sculpture in memory of King Edward VII, located in Centenary Square, Birmingham, England. In 1910, the Birmingham Mail launched an appeal to erect a statue to Edward VII, in order to commemorate his reign. Over £5,000 was quickly raised and an area was allocated within Birmingham Children's Hospital (then located on Ladywood Road near Five Ways) for its location. Albert Toft was commissioned to craft the statue but the project immediately ran into problems. The statue was to be over six feet tall, making it difficult to find a large enough piece of Carrara marble for its construction. Fortunately, this problem was overcome and the project was well underway through 1912. The statue was unveiled in Victoria Square on St George's Day, 23 April 1913 by Princess Louise, Duchess of Argyll. It stood next to a statue of Queen Victoria. However, soon afterwards these statues were criticised as being of "ill matched designs". The statue of Edward VII was eventually moved to Highgate Park (at 52°28′09″N1°52′59″W﻿ / ﻿52.46925°N 1.88294°W) when Victoria Square was remodelled in 1951. The statue was the subject of theft in the 1970s and 1980s, beginning with the theft of Saint George's lance and then the three bronze groups in 1985 and 1986, none of which have been recovered. Following successful lobbying by The Victorian Society, Birmingham City Council agreed to restore the statue and resite it back in the city centre. On 12 June 2007, The Victorian Society launched an appeal fund to contribute towards the programme of works which raised almost £12,000, more than 10% of the final cost of restoration. After restoration by Cliveden Conservation in Bath, starting in 2009, a new sceptre and orb capital (Cross pattée) were made and the three bronzes (one representing Peace, one representing Education and Progress and the other of St George slaying the dragon beneath a large stylised crown) were also re-made and the whole assembly reunited and erected on the original plinth, outside Baskerville House in Centenary Square.. 
Rinzen. Author Name: Antoni Tàpies. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Tachisme. . Rinzen is an sculpture by Antoni Tàpies conserved at MACBA, the Contemporary Art Museum of Barcelona.. Rinzen is an sculpture by Antoni Tàpies conserved at MACBA, the Contemporary Art Museum of Barcelona.. 
Venus and Amor. Author Name: Hans Holbein the Younger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Northern_Renaissance. . Venus and Amor (also known as Venus and Cupid) is a c. 1524 painting by the German painter and printmaker Hans Holbein the Younger, conserved in the Kunstmuseum Basel, Switzerland. Although the work is Holbein's earliest mythological painting, depicting the Roman goddess of love, Venus, with her son Amor (Cupid), the model is believed to be his friend Magdalena Offenburg. They are shown in front of a large hanging green curtain and behind a low parapet. Venus is depicted with an open gesture and sincere gaze. Cupid is seen climbing onto the parapet while holding love's arrow in his left hand. He has red-orange hair, rendered in the same colouring and tone of the rich cloth sleeves covering his mother's upper arms.. Venus and Amor (also known as Venus and Cupid) is a c. 1524 painting by the German painter and printmaker Hans Holbein the Younger, conserved in the Kunstmuseum Basel, Switzerland. Although the work is Holbein's earliest mythological painting, depicting the Roman goddess of love, Venus, with her son Amor (Cupid), the model is believed to be his friend Magdalena Offenburg. They are shown in front of a large hanging green curtain and behind a low parapet. Venus is depicted with an open gesture and sincere gaze. Cupid is seen climbing onto the parapet while holding love's arrow in his left hand. He has red-orange hair, rendered in the same colouring and tone of the rich cloth sleeves covering his mother's upper arms. Venus and Amor was painted after Holbein's return to Basel following a short stay in France. While in France, he had access to the collection of Francois I, and it's believed likely that this work was one of his early responses to his exposure to the Italian painters of the era. Such influences can be seen in the gesture of Venus, whose pose closely echoes that of Jesus in Leonardo's 1498 Last Supper. In addition, her long, oval, idealised face seems closely modeled on Leonardo's depictions of the Virgin Mary. Leonardesque portrait painting was very popular across northern Europe during the 1520s, and it is generally believed that a number of Holbein's works from this period were direct attempts to seduce and gain favour from potential wealthy patrons. The art historians Oskar Bätschmann and Pascal Griener wrote in 1999 that, as with the artist's similar Lais of Corinth, Venus' open hand is "stretched towards the beholder and prospective collector." The model is the same as that used for his Darmstadt Madonna and for the Venus and Amor and Lais of Corinth, and has been identified as Magdalena Offenburg, who may have been the artist's mistress. The work was first mentioned when it came into the possession of the collector Basilius Amerbach in 1578 as a gift from his cousin, Franz Rechburger. Amerbach's inventory records that the work was formed as a portrait of a lady from the Offenburg family, however this claim has not been substantiated by art historians. The Web Gallery of Art notes that "even if Holbein did make use of a portrait study, he has idealised his model to the point where it can no longer be considered a true portrait.". 
The Boat Builders. Author Name: Winslow Homer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Boat Builders is an oil painting on panel by American landscape painter Winslow Homer, which is held in the collection of the Indianapolis Museum of Art (IMA), in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States.. The Boat Builders is an oil painting on panel by American landscape painter Winslow Homer, which is held in the collection of the Indianapolis Museum of Art (IMA), in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States.. 
Venus, Cupid, Folly and Time. Author Name: Bronzino. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . Venus, Cupid, Folly, and Time (also called An Allegory of Venus and Cupid and A Triumph of Venus) is an allegorical painting by the Florentine artist Agnolo Bronzino. It is now in the National Gallery, London.. Venus, Cupid, Folly, and Time (also called An Allegory of Venus and Cupid and A Triumph of Venus) is an allegorical painting by the Florentine artist Agnolo Bronzino. It is now in the National Gallery, London.. 
Ascent of the Blessed. Author Name: Hieronymus Bosch. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Early_Netherlandish_painting. . Ascent of the Blessed is a Hieronymus Bosch painting made after 1490. It is in the Palazzo Ducale, in Venice, Italy.This painting is part of a polyptych of four panels entitled Visions of the Hereafter. The others are Terrestrial Paradise, Fall of the Damned and Hell.. Ascent of the Blessed is a Hieronymus Bosch painting made after 1490. It is in the Palazzo Ducale, in Venice, Italy. This painting is part of a polyptych of four panels entitled Visions of the Hereafter. The others are Terrestrial Paradise, Fall of the Damned and Hell. Near-death experience researcher Sam Parnia wrote that the painting resembles imagery typically associated with an NDE, in particular angels escorting people down a tunnel of white light. He had a subject in particular write to him specifically referencing the painting, saying that it very much resembled what he saw during his NDE. It is unknown if Bosch himself ever experienced an NDE or had someone relate to him such an experience.. 
Adoration of the Magi. Author Name: Antonio da Correggio. . Author Movement: Mannerism. . The Adoration of the Magi is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance painter Correggio, executed around 1515–1518. It is housed in the Pinacoteca di Brera of Milan, Italy.. The Adoration of the Magi is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance painter Correggio, executed around 1515–1518. It is housed in the Pinacoteca di Brera of Milan, Italy.. 
The Child's Bath. Author Name: Mary Cassatt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Child's Bath (or The Bath) is an 1893 oil painting by American artist Mary Cassatt. The subject matter and the overhead perspective were inspired by Japanese woodblocks. It shows dignity in motherhood and has a style similar to that of Degas.The Art Institute of Chicago acquired the piece in 1910. It has since become one of the most popular pieces in the museum.. The Child's Bath (or The Bath) is an 1893 oil painting by American artist Mary Cassatt. The subject matter and the overhead perspective were inspired by Japanese woodblocks. It shows dignity in motherhood and has a style similar to that of Degas. The Art Institute of Chicago acquired the piece in 1910. It has since become one of the most popular pieces in the museum.. 
Astronomer Copernicus, or Conversations with God. Author Name: Jan Matejko. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/History_painting. . Astronomer Copernicus, or Conversations with God (Polish: Astronom Kopernik, czyli rozmowa z Bogiem) is an oil painting by the Polish artist Jan Matejko, finished in 1873, depicting Nicolaus Copernicus observing the heavens from a balcony by a tower near the cathedral in Frombork (seen in the back). Currently the painting is in the collection of the Jagiellonian University of Kraków, which purchased it from a private owner with money donated by the Polish public.. Astronomer Copernicus, or Conversations with God (Polish: Astronom Kopernik, czyli rozmowa z Bogiem) is an oil painting by the Polish artist Jan Matejko, finished in 1873, depicting Nicolaus Copernicus observing the heavens from a balcony by a tower near the cathedral in Frombork (seen in the back). Currently the painting is in the collection of the Jagiellonian University of Kraków, which purchased it from a private owner with money donated by the Polish public. The painting presently adorns the Aula of the Collegium Novum of the University. As with many other works, Matejko painted his artwork in 1872 as part of a series of paintings intended to represent profound moments in the history of Poland.. 
Three Heads Six Arms. Author Name: Zhang Huan. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Contemporary_art. . Three Heads Six Arms is a sculpture by Chinese artist Zhang Huan. The work, composed of copper and steel, is 27 feet tall and weighs 15 tons. From May 2010 to February 2011, the sculpture was installed at the Joseph L. Alioto Performing Arts Plaza in San Francisco's Civic Center.. Three Heads Six Arms is a sculpture by Chinese artist Zhang Huan. The work, composed of copper and steel, is 27 feet tall and weighs 15 tons. From May 2010 to February 2011, the sculpture was installed at the Joseph L. Alioto Performing Arts Plaza in San Francisco's Civic Center.. 
Open End. Author Name: Clement Meadmore. . . Open End is an abstract public art sculpture by Clement Meadmore. The 11-foot-high (3.4 m), 5-short-ton (4.5 t) curved metal beam is located on the grounds of St. Xavier High School in Springfield Township, Hamilton County, Ohio, United States. It was previously located in downtown Cincinnati.. Open End is an abstract public art sculpture by Clement Meadmore. The 11-foot-high (3.4 m), 5-short-ton (4.5 t) curved metal beam is located on the grounds of St. Xavier High School in Springfield Township, Hamilton County, Ohio, United States. It was previously located in downtown Cincinnati.. 
Wedding dress of Jacqueline Bouvier. Author Name: Ann Lowe. . . The wedding dress of Jacqueline Bouvier was worn by Jacqueline Bouvier (later Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis) in her wedding to John F. Kennedy on 12 September 1953. The dress is cited as iconic and one of the best-remembered bridal gowns of all time.. The wedding dress of Jacqueline Bouvier was worn by Jacqueline Bouvier (later Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis) in her wedding to John F. Kennedy on 12 September 1953. The dress is cited as iconic and one of the best-remembered bridal gowns of all time. The bouffant wedding gown was the creation of Ann Lowe made from 15 metres (49 ft) of ivory silk taffeta. The veil, made of lace, however, was the one worn by her grandmother in her wedding. Ann Lowe, who made the gown and also held the trail (so that it did not get trodden), was not given due credit by name. When Jacqueline was asked a question as to who made the gown, she replied that it was made by a "colored woman.". 
Beasts of the Sea. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . Beasts of the Sea is a paper collage on canvas by Henri Matisse from 1950. It is currently in the collection of the National Gallery of Art, Washington, DC.. During the early-to-mid-1940s Matisse was in poor health. Eventually by 1950 he stopped painting in favor of his paper cutouts. Beasts of the Sea, is an example of Matisse's final body of works known as the cutouts.. Beasts of the Sea is a paper collage on canvas by Henri Matisse from 1950. It is currently in the collection of the National Gallery of Art, Washington, DC.. During the early-to-mid-1940s Matisse was in poor health. Eventually by 1950 he stopped painting in favor of his paper cutouts. Beasts of the Sea, is an example of Matisse's final body of works known as the cutouts.. 
Woman Reading a Letter. Author Name: Gabriël Metsu. . . Woman Reading a Letter is an oil painting by Gabriël Metsu made in the mid-1660s, shortly before Metsu's death. During his lifetime, under the Golden Age of Dutch painting Metsu was a renowned painter, much better known than Vermeer. It is assumed to be a pair with Man Writing a Letter.The pair of paintings are regarded as some of Metsu's best-known works; Metsu got the idea of a pair of themed paintings from Gerard ter Borch, who had painted a similar pair. It has been in the collection of the National Gallery of Ireland in Dublin since 1987.. Woman Reading a Letter is an oil painting by Gabriël Metsu made in the mid-1660s, shortly before Metsu's death. During his lifetime, under the Golden Age of Dutch painting Metsu was a renowned painter, much better known than Vermeer. It is assumed to be a pair with Man Writing a Letter. The pair of paintings are regarded as some of Metsu's best-known works; Metsu got the idea of a pair of themed paintings from Gerard ter Borch, who had painted a similar pair. It has been in the collection of the National Gallery of Ireland in Dublin since 1987.. 
Four Freedoms. Author Name: Norman Rockwell. . . The Four Freedoms is a series of four 1943 oil paintings by the American artist Norman Rockwell. The paintings—Freedom of Speech, Freedom of Worship, Freedom from Want, and Freedom from Fear—are each approximately 45.75 inches (116.2 cm) × 35.5 inches (90 cm), and are now in the Norman Rockwell Museum in Stockbridge, Massachusetts. The four freedoms refer to President Franklin D. Roosevelt's January 1941 Four Freedoms State of the Union address in which he identified essential human rights that should be universally protected. The theme was incorporated into the Atlantic Charter, and became part of the charter of the United Nations. The paintings were reproduced in The Saturday Evening Post over four consecutive weeks in 1943, alongside essays by prominent thinkers of the day. They became . The Four Freedoms is a series of four 1943 oil paintings by the American artist Norman Rockwell. The paintings—Freedom of Speech, Freedom of Worship, Freedom from Want, and Freedom from Fear—are each approximately 45.75 inches (116.2 cm) × 35.5 inches (90 cm), and are now in the Norman Rockwell Museum in Stockbridge, Massachusetts. The four freedoms refer to President Franklin D. Roosevelt's January 1941 Four Freedoms State of the Union address in which he identified essential human rights that should be universally protected. The theme was incorporated into the Atlantic Charter, and became part of the charter of the United Nations. The paintings were reproduced in The Saturday Evening Post over four consecutive weeks in 1943, alongside essays by prominent thinkers of the day. They became the highlight of a touring exhibition sponsored by The Post and the U.S. Department of the Treasury. The exhibition and accompanying sales drives of war bonds raised over $132 million. This series has been the cornerstone of retrospective art exhibits presenting the career of Rockwell, who was the most widely known and popular commercial artist of the mid-20th century, but did not achieve critical acclaim. These are his best-known works, and by some accounts became the most widely distributed paintings. At one time they were commonly displayed in post offices, schools, clubs, railroad stations, and a variety of public and semi-public buildings. Critical review of these images, like most of Rockwell's work, has not been entirely positive. Rockwell's idyllic and nostalgic approach to regionalism made him a popular illustrator but a lightly regarded fine artist during his lifetime, a view still prevalent today. However, he has created an enduring niche in the social fabric with Freedom from Want, emblematic of what is now known as the "Norman Rockwell Thanksgiving".. 
Recreation of Decor for Satie’s “Socrate” , 1976. Author Name: Alexander "Sandy" Calder. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstraction_(art). . The original Decor for Satie's "Socrate" was designed by mobile artist Alexander Calder for a touring performance of Erik Satie’s symphonic drama Socrate in 1936. It was a mobile set considered by Virgil Thomson as one of the masterpieces of twentieth-century theatre design. It consisted of three elements: a red disc, interlocking steel hoops, and a vertical rectangle, black on one side and white on the other, against a blue backdrop. Destroyed in a fire in 1936, the decor was recreated by Walter Hatke in 1976 for a performance in New York.. The original Decor for Satie's "Socrate" was designed by mobile artist Alexander Calder for a touring performance of Erik Satie’s symphonic drama Socrate in 1936. It was a mobile set considered by Virgil Thomson as one of the masterpieces of twentieth-century theatre design. It consisted of three elements: a red disc, interlocking steel hoops, and a vertical rectangle, black on one side and white on the other, against a blue backdrop. Destroyed in a fire in 1936, the decor was recreated by Walter Hatke in 1976 for a performance in New York.. 
Hadleigh Castle. Author Name: John Constable. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . Hadleigh Castle is an oil painting by the English painter John Constable.John Constable visited Hadleigh Castle in 1814 and made a minute drawing of the castle. This he developed into a full-sized oil sketch in preparation for a finished painting, executed in 1829 and exhibited at the Royal Academy in the same year. The sketch is currently displayed at the Tate Gallery, London, while the finished painting now hangs in the Yale Center for British Art at New Haven, United States. Constable's painting, "one of his most monumental works" according to art historians Tammis Groft and Mary Mackay, shows Hadleigh Castle as a decaying man-made structure, succumbing to the elemental power of nature.. Hadleigh Castle is an oil painting by the English painter John Constable. John Constable visited Hadleigh Castle in 1814 and made a minute drawing of the castle. This he developed into a full-sized oil sketch in preparation for a finished painting, executed in 1829 and exhibited at the Royal Academy in the same year. The sketch is currently displayed at the Tate Gallery, London, while the finished painting now hangs in the Yale Center for British Art at New Haven, United States. Constable's painting, "one of his most monumental works" according to art historians Tammis Groft and Mary Mackay, shows Hadleigh Castle as a decaying man-made structure, succumbing to the elemental power of nature.. 
The Sleepers. Author Name: Gustave Courbet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Le Sommeil (translated in English variously as The Sleepers and Sleep) is an erotic oil painting on canvas by French artist Gustave Courbet created in 1866. The painting, which depicts lesbianism, is also known as the Two Friends (Les Deux Amies) and Indolence and Lust (Paresse et Luxure).. Le Sommeil (translated in English variously as The Sleepers and Sleep) is an erotic oil painting on canvas by French artist Gustave Courbet created in 1866. The painting, which depicts lesbianism, is also known as the Two Friends (Les Deux Amies) and Indolence and Lust (Paresse et Luxure).. 
St. Sebastian. Author Name: Antonello da Messina. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . St. Sebastian is a painting, once part of a triptych by the Italian Renaissance artist Antonello da Messina, completed in 1477-9. It is housed in the Gemäldegalerie Alte Meister, Dresden, Germany.. St. Sebastian is a painting, once part of a triptych by the Italian Renaissance artist Antonello da Messina, completed in 1477-9. It is housed in the Gemäldegalerie Alte Meister, Dresden, Germany.. 
Portrait of Jacopo Strada. Author Name: Titian. . . The Portrait of Jacopo Strada is a 1567-68 portrait of Jacopo Strada by Titian, now in the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna.. The Portrait of Jacopo Strada is a 1567-68 portrait of Jacopo Strada by Titian, now in the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna.. 
Christopher Columbus. Author Name: Sunol, Jeronimo. . . Christopher Columbus is an outdoor bronze sculpture of Christopher Columbus by Jeronimo Sunol, located in Central Park in Manhattan, New York. The statue was created in 1892 to commemorate the 400th anniversary of Columbus's arrival in the Americas. It was unveiled in Central Park on May 12, 1894.. Christopher Columbus is an outdoor bronze sculpture of Christopher Columbus by Jeronimo Sunol, located in Central Park in Manhattan, New York. The statue was created in 1892 to commemorate the 400th anniversary of Columbus's arrival in the Americas. It was unveiled in Central Park on May 12, 1894.. 
Nature Belle. Author Name: Staab, Roy. . . Nature Belle, a public artwork by American artist Roy Staab, was located in the middle of the round-about intersecting the Hank Aron trail and 25th street, which is near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The Nature Belle was a site specific Belle constructed out of all natural/organic materials. The Finished bell was held up by a box elder tree and was approximately 35ft. by 45ft. The work is no longer existent, because of a storm that took it down. The work was completed on June 6th, 2006, and it was taken down September 8th, 2006.. Nature Belle, a public artwork by American artist Roy Staab, was located in the middle of the round-about intersecting the Hank Aron trail and 25th street, which is near Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The Nature Belle was a site specific Belle constructed out of all natural/organic materials. The Finished bell was held up by a box elder tree and was approximately 35ft. by 45ft. The work is no longer existent, because of a storm that took it down. The work was completed on June 6th, 2006, and it was taken down September 8th, 2006.. 
Jewess with Oranges. Author Name: Gierymski, Aleksander. . . Jewess with Oranges (Polish: Żydówka z pomarańczami, Pomarańczarka, Przekupka z Pomarańczami) is an 1880-1881 oil painting on canvas by the Polish artist Aleksander Gierymski. During World War II, the painting was stolen by German forces and recovered in 2011.. Jewess with Oranges (Polish: Żydówka z pomarańczami, Pomarańczarka, Przekupka z Pomarańczami) is an 1880-1881 oil painting on canvas by the Polish artist Aleksander Gierymski. During World War II, the painting was stolen by German forces and recovered in 2011.. 
The Source. Author Name: Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . The Source (French: La Source) is an oil painting on canvas by French neoclassical painter Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres. The work was begun in Florence around 1820 and not completed until 1856, in Paris. When Ingres completed The Source, he was seventy-six years old, already famous, and president of the École des Beaux-Arts. The pose of the nude may be compared with that of another by Ingres, the Venus Anadyomene (1848), and is a reimagination of the Aphrodite of Cnidus or Venus Pudica. Two of Ingres' students, painters Paul Balze and Alexandre Desgoffe, helped to create the background and water jar.. The Source (French: La Source) is an oil painting on canvas by French neoclassical painter Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres. The work was begun in Florence around 1820 and not completed until 1856, in Paris. When Ingres completed The Source, he was seventy-six years old, already famous, and president of the École des Beaux-Arts. The pose of the nude may be compared with that of another by Ingres, the Venus Anadyomene (1848), and is a reimagination of the Aphrodite of Cnidus or Venus Pudica. Two of Ingres' students, painters Paul Balze and Alexandre Desgoffe, helped to create the background and water jar.. 
Still Life II. Author Name: Julio González. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Still Life II is an sculpture by Juli González done in the 1920s, and currently exhibited at the National Art Museum of Catalonia.. Still Life II is an sculpture by Juli González done in the 1920s, and currently exhibited at the National Art Museum of Catalonia.. 
Satire on False Perspective. Author Name: William  Hogarth. . . Satire on False Perspective is the title of an engraving produced by William Hogarth in 1754 for his friend Joshua Kirby's pamphlet on linear perspective.The intent of the work is clearly given by the subtitle:. Satire on False Perspective is the title of an engraving produced by William Hogarth in 1754 for his friend Joshua Kirby's pamphlet on linear perspective. The intent of the work is clearly given by the subtitle:. 
Suicide. Author Name: Andy Warhol. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Suicide (Purple Jumping Man) is a 1963 silkscreen painting by American pop artist, Andy Warhol. it is currently in the collection of the Tehran Museum of Contemporary Art in Tehran.. Suicide (Purple Jumping Man) is a 1963 silkscreen painting by American pop artist, Andy Warhol. it is currently in the collection of the Tehran Museum of Contemporary Art in Tehran.. 
Smoke. Author Name: Tony Smith. . . Smoke is a large-scale sculpture conceived by American artist Tony Smith in 1967 that was fabricated posthumously in 2005 for the Los Angeles County Museum of Art (LACMA) where it was installed in 2008. This two-tier sculptures standing 24 foot tall is made of aluminum and painted black.. Smoke is a large-scale sculpture conceived by American artist Tony Smith in 1967 that was fabricated posthumously in 2005 for the Los Angeles County Museum of Art (LACMA) where it was installed in 2008. This two-tier sculptures standing 24 foot tall is made of aluminum and painted black.. 
The Courtesan. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Japonaiserie (English: Japanesery) was the term the Dutch post-impressionist painter Vincent van Gogh used to express the influence of Japanese art.Before 1854 trade with Japan was confined to a Dutch monopoly and Japanese goods imported into Europe were for the most part confined to porcelain and lacquer ware. The Convention of Kanagawa put an end to the 200-year-old Japanese foreign policy of Seclusion and opened up trade between Japan and the West.In a letter to Theo dated about 5 June 1888 Vincent remarksA month later he wrote,. Japonaiserie (English: Japanesery) was the term the Dutch post-impressionist painter Vincent van Gogh used to express the influence of Japanese art. Before 1854 trade with Japan was confined to a Dutch monopoly and Japanese goods imported into Europe were for the most part confined to porcelain and lacquer ware. The Convention of Kanagawa put an end to the 200-year-old Japanese foreign policy of Seclusion and opened up trade between Japan and the West. Artists such as Manet, Degas and Monet, followed by Van Gogh, began to collect the cheap colour wood-block prints called ukiyo-e prints. For a while Vincent and his brother Theo dealt in these prints and they eventually amassed hundreds of them (now housed in the Van Gogh Museum, Amsterdam). In a letter to Theo dated about 5 June 1888 Vincent remarks A month later he wrote,. 
Actor Arashi Rikan II as Osome. Author Name: Shigeharu, Ryusai. . . Actor Arashi Rikan II as Osome is an ukiyo-e woodblock print by Osaka print artist Ryūsai Shigeharu (柳斎 重春) (1802 – 1853). It depicts late Edo period kabuki actor, Arashi Rikan II as the lead female character in a scene from a popular play of the period. The print belongs to the permanent collection of the Prince Takamado Gallery of Japanese Art in the Royal Ontario Museum, Canada.. Actor Arashi Rikan II as Osome is an ukiyo-e woodblock print by Osaka print artist Ryūsai Shigeharu (柳斎 重春) (1802 – 1853). It depicts late Edo period kabuki actor, Arashi Rikan II as the lead female character in a scene from a popular play of the period. The print belongs to the permanent collection of the Prince Takamado Gallery of Japanese Art in the Royal Ontario Museum, Canada.. 
A Pound of Flesh for 50p. Author Name: Alex Chinneck. . . A Pound of Flesh for 50p, also known as Melting House, was a temporary outdoor sculpture by artist Alex Chinneck, located in London, United Kingdom. Part of the city's Merge Festival, the two-story house sculpture was constructed from 8,000 paraffin wax bricks and it was designed to melt with assistance from a heating apparatus. It was displayed from September 26 to November 18 at 40 Southwark Street, SE1 9HP. The sculpture was then destroyed.. A Pound of Flesh for 50p, also known as Melting House, was a temporary outdoor sculpture by artist Alex Chinneck, located in London, United Kingdom. Part of the city's Merge Festival, the two-story house sculpture was constructed from 8,000 paraffin wax bricks and it was designed to melt with assistance from a heating apparatus. It was displayed from September 26 to November 18 at 40 Southwark Street, SE1 9HP. The sculpture was then destroyed.. 
Testament and Death of Moses. Author Name: Bartolomeo Della Gatta. . . The Testament and Death of Moses is a fresco attributed to the Italian Renaissance painters Luca Signorelli and Bartolomeo della Gatta, executed in around 1482 and located in the Sistine Chapel, Rome.. The Testament and Death of Moses is a fresco attributed to the Italian Renaissance painters Luca Signorelli and Bartolomeo della Gatta, executed in around 1482 and located in the Sistine Chapel, Rome.. 
Esther. Author Name: Sir John Everett Millais, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pre-Raphaelite_Brotherhood. . Esther (1865) is a painting by John Everett Millais depicting the central character from the Biblical Book of Esther. It is from Millais's Aesthetic phase, when he was influenced by the work of Frederic Leighton and James McNeill Whistler.The painting depicts Esther, the Jewish wife of the Persian king Ahasuerus, as she prepares to enter the presence of her husband. As she is uninvited, she risks death, but does so to inform him of a plot against the Jews.. Esther (1865) is a painting by John Everett Millais depicting the central character from the Biblical Book of Esther. It is from Millais's Aesthetic phase, when he was influenced by the work of Frederic Leighton and James McNeill Whistler. The painting depicts Esther, the Jewish wife of the Persian king Ahasuerus, as she prepares to enter the presence of her husband. As she is uninvited, she risks death, but does so to inform him of a plot against the Jews. Millais borrowed the Yellow Jacket, a gown given to General Gordon by the Chinese emperor after his defeat of the Taiping rebellion. In order to create a culturally unspecific effect, he turned it inside out, producing the abstract patterns visible in the painting. Millais creates a dramatic visual effect by vivid contrasts of colours, setting the deep blue of the curtain against the yellow dress and the white columns. The minimising of the narrative aspect of the scene is also in line with the Aestheticist approach of the artists he is imitating and challenging. Esther is depicted adjusting pearls in her hair, as she prepares to place her crown on her head. This gesture is derived from paintings by Titian, whose techniques of colouring Millais imitates, along with the modelling of the face and the characteristic "Titian blonde" hair. This also compares with the lush red locks of Millais's earlier picture The Bridesmaid and with some contemporary works by Dante Gabriel Rossetti. Millais's biographer Marion Spielmann wrote that the painting was "the most modernly treated of Millais's early works...more consonant in its strong harmony with the audacious brilliancy of the present day [1898] than the more solid strength of forty years ago.". 
Man with a Pipe. Author Name: Jean Metzinger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Man with a Pipe, also referred to as Portrait of an American Smoker, Portrait of an American Smoking and American Smoking, is a painting by the French Cubist artist Jean Metzinger. The work was reproduced on the cover of catalogue of the Exhibition of Cubist and Futurist Pictures, Boggs & Buhl Department Store, Pittsburgh, forming part of a show in 1913 that traveled to several U.S. cities: Milwaukee, Cleveland, Pittsburgh, New York, and Philadelphia.. Man with a Pipe, also referred to as Portrait of an American Smoker, Portrait of an American Smoking and American Smoking, is a painting by the French Cubist artist Jean Metzinger. The work was reproduced on the cover of catalogue of the Exhibition of Cubist and Futurist Pictures, Boggs & Buhl Department Store, Pittsburgh, forming part of a show in 1913 that traveled to several U.S. cities: Milwaukee, Cleveland, Pittsburgh, New York, and Philadelphia. In 1914 a catalogue was printed for the occasion of the Milwaukee leg of the show, 16 April to 12 May, titled Exhibition of Painting and Sculpture in "The Modern Spirit", hosted by the Milwaukee Art Society. Artists represented included Lucile Swan, Amadeo de Souza Cardoso, Manierre Dawson, Marcel Duchamp, Jacques Villon, Albert Gleizes, Fernand Léger, Gustave Miklos, Francis Picabia, and Henry Fitch Taylor. Metzinger's painting titled Portrait of "American Smoking" figured as No. 101 of the catalogue. And much as the outcry that resulted from the Cubists works at the Armory Show in New York, Chicago and Boston, this traveling exhibition created an uproar in other major U.S. cities. Though he did not exhibit with his Cubist colleagues at the Armory Show in 1913, Metzinger, with this painting and others, contributed in 1913 to the integration of modern art into the United States. Man With a Pipe was gifted to the Wriston Art Center Galleries, Lawrence University, by Howard Green. The painting, shown here in a black and white half-tone photographic reproduction, has been missing since 1998, having disappeared in transit while on loan, between 27 July and 2 August.. 
The Banquet of Cleopatra. Author Name: Giovanni Battista Tiepolo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Rococo. . The Banquet of Cleopatra is a painting by Giovanni Battista Tiepolo completed in 1744. It is now in the National Gallery of Victoria in Melbourne, Australia.The work depicts the culmination of a wager between Cleopatra and Mark Antony as to which one could provide the most expensive feast. As recounted in Pliny the Elder's Natural History she wins the wager: after Mark Antony's feast, Cleopatra drops a rare and precious pearl from her earring into a cup of vinegar and drinks it once the pearl has dissolved. The third person at the table is Lucius Munatius Plancus, at the time Antony's ally, who was to decide the winner of the wager.. The Banquet of Cleopatra is a painting by Giovanni Battista Tiepolo completed in 1744. It is now in the National Gallery of Victoria in Melbourne, Australia. The work depicts the culmination of a wager between Cleopatra and Mark Antony as to which one could provide the most expensive feast. As recounted in Pliny the Elder's Natural History she wins the wager: after Mark Antony's feast, Cleopatra drops a rare and precious pearl from her earring into a cup of vinegar and drinks it once the pearl has dissolved. The third person at the table is Lucius Munatius Plancus, at the time Antony's ally, who was to decide the winner of the wager. This is the first of three large paintings of the subject done by Tiepolo. In addition the much smaller oil studies or modelli for each survive.. 
Fremont Troll. Author Name: Badanes, Steve. . . The Fremont Troll (also known as The Troll, or the Troll Under the Bridge) is a public sculpture in the Fremont neighborhood of Seattle, Washington in the United States.. The Fremont Troll (also known as The Troll, or the Troll Under the Bridge) is a public sculpture in the Fremont neighborhood of Seattle, Washington in the United States.. 
Texas Medal of Honor Memorial. Author Name: Doyle Dudley Glass. . . The Texas Medal of Honor Memorial is a statue commemorating recipients of the Medal of Honor from the state of Texas. Sculpted by Doyle Glass and Scott Boyer, it was dedicated on Memorial Day of 2008 and is located in Midland, Texas, at the Commemorative Air Force International Headquarters. The Memorial depicts Medal of Honor recipient George H. O'Brien, Jr. as he would appear on the day he earned the Medal of Honor for his service during the Korean War. Perched on a rock, the heroic-sized bronze figure rises above a granite base, which displays the names of most recipients of the medal from Texas. The Model for this statue was Buck Hartlage a Louisville Kentucky native.. The Texas Medal of Honor Memorial is a statue commemorating recipients of the Medal of Honor from the state of Texas. Sculpted by Doyle Glass and Scott Boyer, it was dedicated on Memorial Day of 2008 and is located in Midland, Texas, at the Commemorative Air Force International Headquarters. The Memorial depicts Medal of Honor recipient George H. O'Brien, Jr. as he would appear on the day he earned the Medal of Honor for his service during the Korean War. Perched on a rock, the heroic-sized bronze figure rises above a granite base, which displays the names of most recipients of the medal from Texas. The Model for this statue was Buck Hartlage a Louisville Kentucky native.. 
Arrangement in Grey and Black No.1. Author Name: James Abbott McNeill Whistler. . Author Movement: Founder of Tonalism. . Arrangement in Grey and Black No.1, best known under its colloquial name Whistler's Mother, is a painting in oils on canvas created by the American-born painter James McNeill Whistler in 1871. The painting is 56.81 by 63.94 inches (144.3 cm × 162.4 cm), displayed in a frame of Whistler's own design. It is exhibited in and held by the Musée d'Orsay in Paris, having been bought by the French state in 1891. It is one of the most famous works by an American artist outside the United States. It has been variously described as an American icon and a Victorian Mona Lisa.. Arrangement in Grey and Black No.1, best known under its colloquial name Whistler's Mother, is a painting in oils on canvas created by the American-born painter James McNeill Whistler in 1871. The painting is 56.81 by 63.94 inches (144.3 cm × 162.4 cm), displayed in a frame of Whistler's own design. It is exhibited in and held by the Musée d'Orsay in Paris, having been bought by the French state in 1891. It is one of the most famous works by an American artist outside the United States. It has been variously described as an American icon and a Victorian Mona Lisa.. 
John Harvard. Author Name: Daniel Chester French. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/American_Renaissance. . John Harvard is a sculpture in bronze by Daniel Chester French in Harvard Yard, Cambridge, Massachu­setts honoring John Harvard (1607 – 1638), whose deathbedbequest to the"schoale or Colledge"recently undertaken by the Massachu­setts Bay Colony was so gratefully received that it was consequently ordered "that theColledgeagreed upon formerly tobeebuilt atCambridg shalbeecalled HarvardColledge."‍There being nothing to indicate what John Harvard had looked like, French used a Harvard student collaterally descended from an early Harvard president as inspiration.. John Harvard is a sculpture in bronze by Daniel Chester French in Harvard Yard, Cambridge, Massachu­setts honoring John Harvard (1607 – 1638), whose deathbedbequest to the"schoale or Colledge"recently undertaken by the Massachu­setts Bay Colony was so gratefully received that it was consequently ordered "that theColledgeagreed upon formerly tobeebuilt atCambridg shalbeecalled HarvardColledge."‍There being nothing to indicate what John Harvard had looked like, French used a Harvard student collaterally descended from an early Harvard president as inspiration. The statue's inscription—​​—​​is the subject of an arch polemic,traditionally recited for visitors,questioning whether John Harvard justly merits the honorific founder.According to a Harvard official, the founding of the college was not the act of one but the work of many;John Harvard is therefore considered not the founder, but rather a founder, of the school, though the timeliness and generosity of his contribution have made him the most honored of these. Tourists often rub the toe of John Harvard's left shoe for luck, in the mistaken belief that doing so is a Harvard student tradition.. 
Crouching Boy. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . Crouching Boy is a sculpture of the great Renaissance Italian painter and sculptor Michelangelo, preserved today at the Hermitage Museum in Saint Petersburg, it is the only work by Michelangelo in the Hermitage Museum.. Crouching Boy is a sculpture of the great Renaissance Italian painter and sculptor Michelangelo, preserved today at the Hermitage Museum in Saint Petersburg, it is the only work by Michelangelo in the Hermitage Museum.. 
Portrait of Young Man with an Apple. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Young Man with an Apple is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael (1505). It is housed in the Uffizi Gallery in Florence. Made during the artist's Florentine period, it is often thought to be the portrait of Francesco Maria I Della Rovere.. The Young Man with an Apple is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael (1505). It is housed in the Uffizi Gallery in Florence. Made during the artist's Florentine period, it is often thought to be the portrait of Francesco Maria I Della Rovere.. 
Bust of Giovanni Vigevano. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Bust of Giovanni Vigevano is a marble sculptural portrait by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. The bust was produced between 1617 and 1618, and was then inserted into the tomb for Vigevano after he died in 1630. The tomb is in the church of Santa Maria sopra Minerva in Rome.. Bust of Giovanni Vigevano is a marble sculptural portrait by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. The bust was produced between 1617 and 1618, and was then inserted into the tomb for Vigevano after he died in 1630. The tomb is in the church of Santa Maria sopra Minerva in Rome.. 
Abraham Lincoln. Author Name: Jones, Thomas Dow. . . Abraham Lincoln is a public artwork by American sculptor and medallist Thomas Dow Jones, located in the Indiana Statehouse, Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. The painted plaster bust of Abraham Lincoln that resides in the Indiana Statehouse is a copy of an 1861 clay bust. Several versions of the bust exist in plaster, marble, and bronze mediums.. Abraham Lincoln is a public artwork by American sculptor and medallist Thomas Dow Jones, located in the Indiana Statehouse, Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. The painted plaster bust of Abraham Lincoln that resides in the Indiana Statehouse is a copy of an 1861 clay bust. Several versions of the bust exist in plaster, marble, and bronze mediums. Thomas Dow Jones' original 1861 bust was re-sculpted (by the artist) into marble as part of the Lincoln-Vicksburg Monument that was installed in the Ohio Statehouse in 1871. Another copy of the bust was cast into bronze and is part of the Southern Allghenies Museum of Art's permanent sculpture collection (74.011) in Altoona, Pennsylvania. Jones' bust of Lincoln is also in the permanent collection of the Smithsonian National Portrait Gallery (NPG.74.53) in Washington, D.C.. 
Blessed Ludovica Albertoni. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Blessed Ludovica Albertoni (Italian: Beata Ludovica Albertoni) is a funerary monument by the Italian Baroque artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. The trastevere sculpture is located in the specially designed Altieri Chapel in the Church of San Francesco a Ripa in Rome, Italy. Bernini started the project in 1671, but his work on two other major works—The Tomb of Pope Alexander VII and the Altar of the Blessed Sacrament in St. Peter's Basilica—delayed his work on the funerary monument. Bernini completed the sculpture in 1674; it was installed by August 31, 1674.. Blessed Ludovica Albertoni (Italian: Beata Ludovica Albertoni) is a funerary monument by the Italian Baroque artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. The trastevere sculpture is located in the specially designed Altieri Chapel in the Church of San Francesco a Ripa in Rome, Italy. Bernini started the project in 1671, but his work on two other major works—The Tomb of Pope Alexander VII and the Altar of the Blessed Sacrament in St. Peter's Basilica—delayed his work on the funerary monument. Bernini completed the sculpture in 1674; it was installed by August 31, 1674.. 
The Bar. Author Name: John Brack. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Antipodeans. . The Bar is a 1954 painting by Australian artist John Brack. The subject of the painting is a direct reference to Édouard Manet's 1882 work A Bar at the Folies-Bergère. It depicts a barmaid working in an Australian pub at the time of the "six o'clock swill". As in Manet's work, the patrons of the bar are shown in a reflection behind the barmaid. The work is considered a companion piece to Brack's later work Collins St., 5 pm.The painting is part of the National Gallery of Victoria's Australian art collection and exhibited in the Ian Potter Centre in Federation Square in Melbourne.. The Bar is a 1954 painting by Australian artist John Brack. The subject of the painting is a direct reference to Édouard Manet's 1882 work A Bar at the Folies-Bergère. It depicts a barmaid working in an Australian pub at the time of the "six o'clock swill". As in Manet's work, the patrons of the bar are shown in a reflection behind the barmaid. The work is considered a companion piece to Brack's later work Collins St., 5 pm. The painting was first sold to a Melbourne art collector for 90 guineas in 1954. In 2006, the painting sold for $3.12m, a then record for an Australian work of art at auction. The National Gallery of Victoria acquired the painting in 2009. The painting is part of the National Gallery of Victoria's Australian art collection and exhibited in the Ian Potter Centre in Federation Square in Melbourne.. 
The Ecumenical Council. Author Name: Salvador Dalí. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . The Ecumenical Council is a surrealist painting by Spanish artist Salvador Dalí completed in 1960. It is one of his masterpieces, taking two years to complete and very large at 299.7 by 254 centimetres (118.0 in × 100.0 in). The painting is a complex assemblage of art historical references and religious scenes emphasizing Catholic symbolism.Today, it is housed in the Salvador Dalí Museum in St. Petersburg, Florida.. The Ecumenical Council is a surrealist painting by Spanish artist Salvador Dalí completed in 1960. It is one of his masterpieces, taking two years to complete and very large at 299.7 by 254 centimetres (118.0 in × 100.0 in). The painting is a complex assemblage of art historical references and religious scenes emphasizing Catholic symbolism. Dalí was inspired to paint The Ecumenical Council upon the 1958 election of Pope John XXIII, as the pope had extended communication to Geoffrey Fisher, the Archbishop of Canterbury; the first such invitation in more than four centuries. The painting expresses Dalí's renewed hope in religious leadership following the devastation of World War II. Today, it is housed in the Salvador Dalí Museum in St. Petersburg, Florida.. 
Elephant and Obelisk. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Elephant and Obelisk is a sculpture designed by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. The elephant was probably executed by his assistant Ercole Ferrata; the Egyptian obelisk was uncovered during nearby excavations. It was unveiled in February 1667 in the Piazza della Minerva in Rome, Italy, just outside the church of Santa Maria sopra Minerva, where it still stands today.It turned out to be the last commission Pope Alexander VII would ask of Bernini, as he died in May 1667. He was succeeded by Pope Clement IX.. Elephant and Obelisk is a sculpture designed by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. The elephant was probably executed by his assistant Ercole Ferrata; the Egyptian obelisk was uncovered during nearby excavations. It was unveiled in February 1667 in the Piazza della Minerva in Rome, Italy, just outside the church of Santa Maria sopra Minerva, where it still stands today. The image possibly originated from the Hypnerotomachia Polyphili of 1499. Various preparatory drawings done by Bernini exist. One version in Windsor Castle, UK was probably done in the 1630s when Cardinal Francesco Barberini wished to place an Egyptian obelisk in front of his family palace, the Palazzo Barberini. Nothing came of this specific project, but Bernini revived the idea in the 1660s, when Pope Alexander VII, Fabio Chigi, wished to build a similar monument after another Egyptian obelisk had been discovered in Rome. Various other concepts were explored for this later commission as attested by preparatory drawings. It is likely that the drawings were used so that the patron could make a decision about which design he wanted. This include a drawing (in Leipzig) of the figure of Time holding a scythe and simultaneously the obelisk. In the Vatican Library there are two pen and ink drawings with other figures holding up the obelisk, including one of Hercules, and another with various allegorical figures supporting the spire. A third version in the Vatican Library shows Bernini adapting on the concept he created in the 1630s, although he added in a larger base, switched the direction the elephant was pointing in, and made its face appear more friendly than ferocious. It turned out to be the last commission Pope Alexander VII would ask of Bernini, as he died in May 1667. He was succeeded by Pope Clement IX.. 
Park of Laments. Author Name: Alfredo Jaar. . . Park of Laments is a public artwork by Chilean artist Alfredo Jaar, located in the 100 Acres: The Virginia B. Fairbanks Art and Nature Park, in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. The artwork consists of an enclosed park space in the form of a square placed within a square, the inner parameter being made from limestone-filled gabion baskets, and the outer from indigenous trees and shrubs. The park space is only accessible by a concrete enclosed tunnel. The installation has a landscape design that consists of over 3,000 individual plants species from 53 different genera.. Park of Laments is a public artwork by Chilean artist Alfredo Jaar, located in the 100 Acres: The Virginia B. Fairbanks Art and Nature Park, in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. The artwork consists of an enclosed park space in the form of a square placed within a square, the inner parameter being made from limestone-filled gabion baskets, and the outer from indigenous trees and shrubs. The park space is only accessible by a concrete enclosed tunnel. The installation has a landscape design that consists of over 3,000 individual plants species from 53 different genera.. 
Transfiguration of Christ. Author Name: Giovanni Bellini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . Transfiguration of Christ is the subject of two paintings by the Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini, who finished them, respectively, in 1454-1460 and 1480. The earlier version is on display in the Museo Correr of Venice; the later one is now housed in the Capodimonte Gallery of Naples, Italy.. Transfiguration of Christ is the subject of two paintings by the Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini, who finished them, respectively, in 1454-1460 and 1480. The earlier version is on display in the Museo Correr of Venice; the later one is now housed in the Capodimonte Gallery of Naples, Italy.. 
St. Peter of Verona Triptych. Author Name: Blessed John of Fiesole, O.P.. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The St. Peter of Verona Triptych (Italian: Trittico di San Pietro Martire) is a painting by the Italian early Renaissance master Fra Angelico, executed around 1428-1429. It is housed in the National Museum of San Marco, Florence, region of Tuscany, Italy.. The St. Peter of Verona Triptych (Italian: Trittico di San Pietro Martire) is a painting by the Italian early Renaissance master Fra Angelico, executed around 1428-1429. It is housed in the National Museum of San Marco, Florence, region of Tuscany, Italy.. 
Le Suicidé. Author Name: Édouard Manet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Le Suicidé is a small oil painting by Édouard Manet, completed between 1877 and 1881. The painting has been little studied within Manet's oeuvre, as if art historians have had difficulty finding a place for the work within the development of Manet's art.. Le Suicidé is a small oil painting by Édouard Manet, completed between 1877 and 1881. The painting has been little studied within Manet's oeuvre, as if art historians have had difficulty finding a place for the work within the development of Manet's art. The pictorial content of the painting is limited to a man who appears to have just shot himself—still holding a gun while slouched on a bed—and a few pieces of furniture. Manet has removed the trappings of earlier depictions of suicide, and provided next to no narrative content or "moralizing tendency". Ilg (2002) associates the painting with the realism of Gustave Courbet, and notes that Courbet also used a depiction of death in his Burial at Ornans (1849–50), a work that Courbet later indicated marked the beginning of his new artistic approach. The realism of Le Suicidé has fueled speculation that it depicts an actual suicide, but the subject, if any, is not known. Speculation has concerned an assistant of Manet who committed suicide in Manet's studio more than a decade earlier. Another suicide proposed to be connected with the painting was that of an artist whom Émile Zola had written about in 1866. Recent critics have downplayed these associations. Manet's approach to this depiction may represent his continuing desire to break from academic tradition, in which a depiction of suicide could only fit within the genre of history painting—where death and suicide would be placed within a narrative associated with sacrifice, idealism, or heroism. Examples in the French idiom include The Death of Socrates (1787) by Jacques-Louis David, which depicts Socrates' choice to kill himself by hemlock rather than go into exile. There is no such grand statement underlying Manet's painting. The artist has not given us a time, a place, or a protagonist. The painting is plainly constructed rather than carefully styled. This departure from tradition would have been controversial with contemporary viewers.. 
Smiling girl. Author Name: Wijngaarden, Theo van. . . The Smiling Girl, thought to be by Johannes Vermeer, was donated by collector Andrew W. Mellon in 1937 to the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. Now widely considered to be a fake, the painting was claimed by Vermeer expert Arthur Wheelock in a 1995 study to be by 20th-century artist and forger Theo van Wijngaarden, a friend of Han van Meegeren.. The Smiling Girl, thought to be by Johannes Vermeer, was donated by collector Andrew W. Mellon in 1937 to the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. Now widely considered to be a fake, the painting was claimed by Vermeer expert Arthur Wheelock in a 1995 study to be by 20th-century artist and forger Theo van Wijngaarden, a friend of Han van Meegeren.. 
David with the head of Goliath. Author Name: Judith Leyster. . . David with the head of Goliath is a small oil painting by Judith Leyster in a private collection. It is the only known biblical painting by Leyster.. David with the head of Goliath is a small oil painting by Judith Leyster in a private collection. It is the only known biblical painting by Leyster.. 
Alba Madonna. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Alba Madonna is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael, depicting Mary, Jesus and John the Baptist, in a typical Italian countryside. John the Baptist is holding up a cross to Jesus, which the baby Jesus is grasping. All three figures are staring at the cross. The three figures are grouped to the left in the round design, but the outstretched arm of the Madonna and the billowing material of her cloak balance the image.. The Alba Madonna is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael, depicting Mary, Jesus and John the Baptist, in a typical Italian countryside. John the Baptist is holding up a cross to Jesus, which the baby Jesus is grasping. All three figures are staring at the cross. The three figures are grouped to the left in the round design, but the outstretched arm of the Madonna and the billowing material of her cloak balance the image. This Madonna was commissioned by Paolo Giovio who planned to send it to the church of the Olivetani in Nocera dei Pagani. In the 18th century, the painting belonged to the Spanish House of Alba, whose name it bears. In 1836 it was acquired by Nicholas I of Russia, who made it one of the highlights of the Imperial Hermitage Museum in Saint Petersburg. A century later the Soviet Government clandestinely sold it to Andrew W. Mellon, who donated his collection to the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C., where it may be seen today. During its time in the Hermitage, the painting would be transferred from a circular panel to a square canvas during the early nineteenth century. Through analysis of the painting, it was determined that the original panel was severely splitting down the center and on the right side. The canvas pattern is visible in the painting and the landscape on the far right was damaged in the transfer process. During World War II a group of over 100 pieces of art belonging to the National Gallery of Art, including this one, were transported by train to Asheville, NC where they would be stored in the unfinished music room of the Biltmore House. Done with the utmost secrecy, heavy steel doors were installed and bars were put in the windows of the barren music room. In 1944 after it became clear that the war would soon be over the paintings were moved back to the National Gallery of Art.. 
Starry Night over the Rhone. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Starry Night Over the Rhone (September 1888) is one of Vincent van Gogh's paintings of Arles at night time. It was painted at a spot on the bank of the Rhone River that was only a one or two-minute walk from the Yellow House on the Place Lamartine which Van Gogh was renting at the time. The night sky and the effects of light at night provided the subject for some of his more famous paintings, including Cafe Terrace at Night (painted earlier the same month) and the later canvas from Saint-Rémy, The Starry Night.. Starry Night Over the Rhone (September 1888) is one of Vincent van Gogh's paintings of Arles at night time. It was painted at a spot on the bank of the Rhone River that was only a one or two-minute walk from the Yellow House on the Place Lamartine which Van Gogh was renting at the time. The night sky and the effects of light at night provided the subject for some of his more famous paintings, including Cafe Terrace at Night (painted earlier the same month) and the later canvas from Saint-Rémy, The Starry Night. A sketch of the painting is included in a letter van Gogh sent to his friend Eugène Boch on October 2, 1888. The painting was first exhibited in 1889 at the annual exhibition of the Société des Artistes Indépendants in Paris, together with the Irises. The latter was added by Theo, while Vincent had proposed one of his paintings from the public gardens in Arles, most probably the version now in the Phillips Collection.. 
Austin. Author Name: Ellsworth Kelly. . . Austin is a chapel designed by artist Ellsworth Kelly under construction (as of October 31, 2015) on the Blanton Museum of Art’s grounds in Austin, Texas.In January 2015, Kelly gifted to the Blanton Museum the design concept for a 2,715 square feet (252.2 m2) stone building that he subsequently named Austin. This work of art relates to the tradition of modernist artist-commissioned buildings that includes Rothko Chapel and Henri Matisse’s Matisse Chapel. Kelly said that the design of the building was inspired by Romanesque and Byzantine art he studied while in Paris on the G.I. Bill. Following Kelly’s gift, the Blanton launched a $15 million campaign to realize the project.. Austin is a chapel designed by artist Ellsworth Kelly under construction (as of October 31, 2015) on the Blanton Museum of Art’s grounds in Austin, Texas. In January 2015, Kelly gifted to the Blanton Museum the design concept for a 2,715 square feet (252.2 m2) stone building that he subsequently named Austin. This work of art relates to the tradition of modernist artist-commissioned buildings that includes Rothko Chapel and Henri Matisse’s Matisse Chapel. Kelly said that the design of the building was inspired by Romanesque and Byzantine art he studied while in Paris on the G.I. Bill. Following Kelly’s gift, the Blanton launched a $15 million campaign to realize the project.. 
Abraham Lincoln. Author Name: George Peter Alexander Healy. . . Abraham Lincoln is an 1869 oil-on-canvas painting by George Peter Alexander Healy of Abraham Lincoln, the 16th President of the United States.In the painting, Lincoln is observed alone, leaning forward, with his elbow on his knee and his head resting on his hand. The pose is taken from Healy's 1868 painting, The Peacemakers, which depicts the historic March 28, 1865, strategy session by the Union high command, composed of William Tecumseh Sherman, Ulysses S. Grant, David Dixon Porter, and Lincoln, aboard the steamboat the River Queen during the final days of the American Civil War.. Abraham Lincoln is an 1869 oil-on-canvas painting by George Peter Alexander Healy of Abraham Lincoln, the 16th President of the United States. In the painting, Lincoln is observed alone, leaning forward, with his elbow on his knee and his head resting on his hand. The pose is taken from Healy's 1868 painting, The Peacemakers, which depicts the historic March 28, 1865, strategy session by the Union high command, composed of William Tecumseh Sherman, Ulysses S. Grant, David Dixon Porter, and Lincoln, aboard the steamboat the River Queen during the final days of the American Civil War.. 
Vädersolstavlan. Author Name: Elbfas, Jacob Heinrich. . . About this sound Vädersolstavlan  (Swedish for "The Sun Dog Painting") is an oil-on-panel painting depicting a halo display, an atmospheric optical phenomenon, observed over Stockholm on April 20, 1535. It is named after the sun dogs (Swedish: Vädersol, "Weather sun") appearing on the upper right part of the painting. While chiefly noted for being the oldest depiction of Stockholm in colour, it is arguably also the oldest Swedish landscape painting and the oldest depiction of sun dogs.. About this sound Vädersolstavlan (Swedish for "The Sun Dog Painting") is an oil-on-panel painting depicting a halo display, an atmospheric optical phenomenon, observed over Stockholm on April 20, 1535. It is named after the sun dogs (Swedish: Vädersol, "Weather sun") appearing on the upper right part of the painting. While chiefly noted for being the oldest depiction of Stockholm in colour, it is arguably also the oldest Swedish landscape painting and the oldest depiction of sun dogs. The original painting, which was produced shortly after the event and traditionally attributed to Urban målare ("Urban [the] Painter"), is lost, and virtually nothing is known about it. However, a copy from 1636 by Jacob Heinrich Elbfas held in Storkyrkan in Stockholm, is believed to be an accurate copy and was until recently erroneously thought to be the restored original. It was previously covered by layers of brownish varnish, and the image was hardly discernible until carefully restored and thoroughly documented in 1998–1999. The painting was produced during an important time in Swedish history. The establishment of modern Sweden coincided with the introduction of Protestantism and the break-up with Denmark and the Kalmar Union. The painting was commissioned by the Swedish reformer Olaus Petri, and the resulting controversies between him and King Gustav Vasa and the historical context remained a well-kept secret for centuries. During the 20th century the painting became an icon for the history of Stockholm, and it is now frequently displayed whenever the history of the city is commemorated.. 
La danse, Bacchante. Author Name: Jean Metzinger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . La danse (also known as Bacchante) is an oil painting created circa 1906 by the French artist and theorist Jean Metzinger (1883–1956). Bacchante is a pre-Cubist or Proto-Cubist work executed in a highly personal Divisionist style during the height of the Fauve period. Bacchante was painted in Paris at a time when Metzinger and Robert Delaunay painted portraits of one another, exhibiting together at the Salon d'Automne and the Berthe Weill gallery. Bacchante was exhibited in Paris during the spring of 1907 at the Salon des Indépendants (No. 3460), along with Coucher de soleil and four other works by Metzinger.. La danse (also known as Bacchante) is an oil painting created circa 1906 by the French artist and theorist Jean Metzinger (1883–1956). Bacchante is a pre-Cubist or Proto-Cubist work executed in a highly personal Divisionist style during the height of the Fauve period. Bacchante was painted in Paris at a time when Metzinger and Robert Delaunay painted portraits of one another, exhibiting together at the Salon d'Automne and the Berthe Weill gallery. Bacchante was exhibited in Paris during the spring of 1907 at the Salon des Indépendants (No. 3460), along with Coucher de soleil and four other works by Metzinger. The painting was purchased by the art historian and collector Wilhelm Uhde and formed part of his collection until it was sequestered by the French government just before World War I. In 1921 the painting reappeared at the auction house Hôtel Drouot where it was presumably purchased by Kröller-Müller, and published in Catalogue of the paintings in the collection of Helene Kröller-Müller. And as late as 1985 Bacchante was listed in Jean Metzinger In Retrospect as belonging to the collection of the Kröller-Müller Museum.. 
Portrait of a Young Man. Author Name: Masaccio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . Portrait of a Young Man is a painting attributed to the Italian Renaissance painter Masaccio, although this attribution is disputed.The subject of this painting is wearing a chaperon.. Portrait of a Young Man is a painting attributed to the Italian Renaissance painter Masaccio, although this attribution is disputed. The subject of this painting is wearing a chaperon.. 
The Physicist Hans Christian Ørsted. Author Name: Jacques-François-Joseph Saly. . . The Physicist Hans Christian Ørsted (Danish: Fysikeren Hans Christian Ørsted) is a monument to Hans Christian Ørsted located in Ørsted Park in central Copenhagen, Denmark.. The Physicist Hans Christian Ørsted (Danish: Fysikeren Hans Christian Ørsted) is a monument to Hans Christian Ørsted located in Ørsted Park in central Copenhagen, Denmark.. 
Chop Suey. Author Name: Edward Hopper. . . Chop Suey (1929) is a painting by Edward Hopper. The foreground of the work portrays two women in conversation at a restaurant.. Chop Suey (1929) is a painting by Edward Hopper. The foreground of the work portrays two women in conversation at a restaurant.. 
The Order of Release, 1746. Author Name: Sir John Everett Millais, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pre-Raphaelite_Brotherhood. . The Order of Release, 1746 is a painting by John Everett Millais exhibited in 1853. It is notable for marking the beginnings of Millais's move away from the highly detailed Pre-Raphaelitism of his early years. Effie Gray, who later left her husband for the artist, modelled for the principal figure.The painting depicts the wife of a rebel Scottish soldier, who has been imprisoned after the Jacobite rising of 1745, arriving with an order securing his release. She holds her child, showing the order to a guard, while her husband embraces her.. The Order of Release, 1746 is a painting by John Everett Millais exhibited in 1853. It is notable for marking the beginnings of Millais's move away from the highly detailed Pre-Raphaelitism of his early years. Effie Gray, who later left her husband for the artist, modelled for the principal figure. The painting depicts the wife of a rebel Scottish soldier, who has been imprisoned after the Jacobite rising of 1745, arriving with an order securing his release. She holds her child, showing the order to a guard, while her husband embraces her. The Illustrated London News reviewed the painting as follows: The dark, generalised background is a departure from the highly detailed backgrounds of earlier works such as Ophelia, as is the emphatic chiaroscuro. However, the portrayal of tense relationships disrupted by historical dramas was a continuation of the theme of A Huguenot and The Proscribed Royalist, 1651. While working on the painting, Millais fell in love with Effie, the wife of his principal supporter, the critic John Ruskin. A study for the painting has a drawing of her head on one side and an image of a man kneeling in supplication to a woman on the other, labelled "accepted".. 
MIckey. Author Name: Damien Hirst. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Young_British_Artists. . Mickey is a household gloss on canvas painting by Damien Hirst executed in 2012. Hirst was invited by Disney to create an artwork inspired by Mickey Mouse and this was his response. The work was auctioned at Christie's, London, on 13 February 2014 in aid of Kids Company, a charity Hirst has long supported, fetching £902,500.The auction lot notes quote Hirst as commenting:. Mickey is a household gloss on canvas painting by Damien Hirst executed in 2012. Hirst was invited by Disney to create an artwork inspired by Mickey Mouse and this was his response. The work was auctioned at Christie's, London, on 13 February 2014 in aid of Kids Company, a charity Hirst has long supported, fetching £902,500. The auction lot notes quote Hirst as commenting:. 
Duck Girl. Author Name: Paul Manship. . . Duck Girl is a bronze sculpture, by Paul Manship.It is located at Rittenhouse Square, near 18th street and Walnut Street, Philadelphia.It was installed in Cloverly Park, in 1916, and moved to storage in 1956, but relocated to Rittenhouse Square.The sculpture won the Widener Gold Medal, from the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, in 1914.. Duck Girl is a bronze sculpture, by Paul Manship.It is located at Rittenhouse Square, near 18th street and Walnut Street, Philadelphia. It was installed in Cloverly Park, in 1916, and moved to storage in 1956, but relocated to Rittenhouse Square. The sculpture won the Widener Gold Medal, from the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, in 1914.. 
Police Gazette. Author Name: Willem de Kooning. . . Police Gazette is a 1955 abstract painting by Willem de Kooning, which is currently in private hands.. Police Gazette is a 1955 abstract painting by Willem de Kooning, which is currently in private hands.. 
The Parnassus. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Parnassus is a fresco painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael in the Raphael Rooms ("Stanze di Raffaello"), in the Palace of the Vatican in Rome, painted at the commission of Pope Julius II. It was probably the second wall of the Stanza della segnatura to be painted, in about 1511, after La disputa and before The School of Athens, which occupy other walls of the room.The window below the fresco Parnassus frames the view of Mons Vaticanus, believed to be sacred to Apollo. Humanists, such as Biondo, Vegio, and Albertini, refer to the ancient-sun god of the Vatican.. The Parnassus is a fresco painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael in the Raphael Rooms ("Stanze di Raffaello"), in the Palace of the Vatican in Rome, painted at the commission of Pope Julius II. It was probably the second wall of the Stanza della segnatura to be painted, in about 1511, after La disputa and before The School of Athens, which occupy other walls of the room. The whole room shows the four areas of human knowledge: philosophy, religion, poetry and law, with The Parnassus representing poetry. The fresco shows the mythological Mount Parnassus where Apollo dwells; he is in the centre playing an instrument (a contemporary lira da braccio rather than a classical lyre), surrounded by the nine muses, nine poets from antiquity, and nine contemporary poets. Apollo, along with Calliope, the muse of epic poetry, inspired poets. Raphael used the face of Laocoön from the classical sculpture Laocoön and His Sons, excavated in 1506 and also in the Vatican for his Homer (in dark blue robe to the left of centre), expressing blindness rather than pain. Two of the female figures in the fresco have been said to be reminiscent of Michaelangelo's Creation of Adam, Euterpe and Sappho, who is named on a scroll she holds. Sappho is the only female poet shown, presumably identified so that she is not confused with a muse; she is a late addition who does not appear in the print by Marcantonio Raimondi that records a drawing for the fresco. The window below the fresco Parnassus frames the view of Mons Vaticanus, believed to be sacred to Apollo. Humanists, such as Biondo, Vegio, and Albertini, refer to the ancient-sun god of the Vatican.. 
A Girl with a Watering Can. Author Name: Pierre-Auguste Renoir. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . A Girl with a Watering Can is an Impressionist painting by Pierre-Auguste Renoir from 1876. The work was apparently painted in Monet's famous garden at Argenteuil. This painting is of Mademoiselle Leclere in her blue dress holding a watering can.. A Girl with a Watering Can is an Impressionist painting by Pierre-Auguste Renoir from 1876. The work was apparently painted in Monet's famous garden at Argenteuil. This painting is of Mademoiselle Leclere in her blue dress holding a watering can.. 
Cleopatra and Caesar. Author Name: Jean-Léon Gérôme. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Orientalism. . Cleopatra and Caesar (French: Cléopâtre et César), also known as Cleopatra Before Caesar, is an oil on canvas painting by the French Academic artist Jean-Léon Gérôme, completed in 1866. The work was originally commissioned by the French courtesan La Païva but she was unhappy with the finished painting and returned it to Gérôme. It was exhibited at the Salon of 1866 and the Royal Academy of Arts in 1871.The painting was held by California banker Darius Ogden Mills and remained in the Mills family art collection for over a century until it was sold to a private collector in 1990.. Cleopatra and Caesar (French: Cléopâtre et César), also known as Cleopatra Before Caesar, is an oil on canvas painting by the French Academic artist Jean-Léon Gérôme, completed in 1866. The work was originally commissioned by the French courtesan La Païva but she was unhappy with the finished painting and returned it to Gérôme. It was exhibited at the Salon of 1866 and the Royal Academy of Arts in 1871. Gérôme's painting is one of the earliest modern depictions of Cleopatra emerging from a carpet in the presence of Julius Caesar, a minor historical inaccuracy that arose out of the translation of a scene from Plutarch's Life of Caesar and the semantic change of the word "carpet" over time. The work is considered a classic example of Egyptomania and was mass-produced by Goupil, allowing it to reach a wide audience. The painting was held by California banker Darius Ogden Mills and remained in the Mills family art collection for over a century until it was sold to a private collector in 1990.. 
Escogedoras de café. Author Name: Calderón, Alba. . . Escogedoras de café (Coffee Pickers) (1939) is a painting by the Ecuadorian social realist artist Alba Calderón. It is one of her most remarkable and complex paintings. In this tropical-colored painting, peasants are toiling on a coffee plantation overseen by a majordomo with a sheathed machete. The peasants are portrayed as a collective, individuality does not matter; that is why their faces are not shown or are covered by sombreros.. Escogedoras de café (Coffee Pickers) (1939) is a painting by the Ecuadorian social realist artist Alba Calderón. It is one of her most remarkable and complex paintings. In this tropical-colored painting, peasants are toiling on a coffee plantation overseen by a majordomo with a sheathed machete. The peasants are portrayed as a collective, individuality does not matter; that is why their faces are not shown or are covered by sombreros.. 
William the Silent. Author Name: Dupuis, Toon. . . A bronze statue of William the Silent (also known as Willie the Silent and Still Bill) was installed in 1928 on the Voorhees Mall section of Rutgers University's College Avenue Campus in New Brunswick, New Jersey. It is located along Seminary Place, a street at the western end of the Voorhees Mall, and is near several academic buildings, including the university's Graduate School of Education, Van Dyke Hall, and Milledoler Hall.. A bronze statue of William the Silent (also known as Willie the Silent and Still Bill) was installed in 1928 on the Voorhees Mall section of Rutgers University's College Avenue Campus in New Brunswick, New Jersey. It is located along Seminary Place, a street at the western end of the Voorhees Mall, and is near several academic buildings, including the university's Graduate School of Education, Van Dyke Hall, and Milledoler Hall. The statue was donated to Rutgers by Dr. Fenton B. Turck to commemorate the university's Dutch heritage. Turck, with the assistance of railroad executive and Rutgers alumnus Leonor F. Loree, collaborated to arrange the anonymous donation of the statue through the Holland Society of New York. It is a statue of William I, Prince of Orange (1533-1584), an early leader of the Dutch revolt against Habsburg Spain which led to the independence of the Netherlands in 1648. The statue has continued to be included in student life as the Voorhees Mall was used as the site of student and community events, including graduation ceremonies, pep rallies, festivals, and protests. Occasionally, the statue is a target of vandalism in an ongoing historical rivalry between students of Rutgers and Princeton University. Student tradition at Rutgers alleges that the statue will whistle should a female virgin happen to pass by. The statue was restored in 2006 in an effort funded by alumni donations.. 
Portrait of Daniele Barbaro. Author Name: Paolo Veronese. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Portrait of Daniele Barbaro is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Paolo Veronese (from circa 1565-1567), belonging to the collection of the Rijksmuseum Amsterdam.There is a portrait by Veronese in the Pitti Palace, Florence, which has been described as Barbaro dressed as a Venetian aristocrat, but this identification is not certain.Barbaro was also portrayed by Titian.. The Portrait of Daniele Barbaro is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Paolo Veronese (from circa 1565-1567), belonging to the collection of the Rijksmuseum Amsterdam. There is a portrait by Veronese in the Pitti Palace, Florence, which has been described as Barbaro dressed as a Venetian aristocrat, but this identification is not certain. Barbaro was also portrayed by Titian.. 
The Night Café. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . The Night Café (French: Le Café de nuit) is an oil painting created by Dutch artist Vincent van Gogh in September 1888 in Arles. Its title is inscribed lower right beneath the signature.The interior depicted is the Café de la Gare, 30 Place Lamartine, run by Joseph-Michel Ginoux and his wife Marie, who in November 1888 posed for Van Gogh's and Gauguin's Arlésienne; a bit later, Joseph Ginoux evidently posed for both artists, too.. The Night Café (French: Le Café de nuit) is an oil painting created by Dutch artist Vincent van Gogh in September 1888 in Arles. Its title is inscribed lower right beneath the signature. The interior depicted is the Café de la Gare, 30 Place Lamartine, run by Joseph-Michel Ginoux and his wife Marie, who in November 1888 posed for Van Gogh's and Gauguin's Arlésienne; a bit later, Joseph Ginoux evidently posed for both artists, too.. 
Fatata te Miti. Author Name: Paul Gauguin. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Fatata te Miti is an 1892 oil painting by French artist Paul Gauguin, located in the National Gallery of Art, in Washington, DC.. Fatata te Miti is an 1892 oil painting by French artist Paul Gauguin, located in the National Gallery of Art, in Washington, DC.. 
The Polish Rider. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Polish Rider is a seventeenth-century painting, usually dated to the 1650s, of a young man traveling on horseback through a murky landscape, now in The Frick Collection in New York. When the painting was sold by Zdzisław Tarnowski to Henry Frick in 1910, there was consensus that the work was by the Dutch painter Rembrandt. This attribution has since been contested, though this remains a minority view.. The Polish Rider is a seventeenth-century painting, usually dated to the 1650s, of a young man traveling on horseback through a murky landscape, now in The Frick Collection in New York. When the painting was sold by Zdzisław Tarnowski to Henry Frick in 1910, there was consensus that the work was by the Dutch painter Rembrandt. This attribution has since been contested, though this remains a minority view. There has also been debate over whether the painting was intended as a portrait of a particular person, living or historical, and if so of whom, or if not, what it was intended to represent. The quality of the painting is generally admitted as is its slight air of mystery, though parts of the background are very sketchily painted or unfinished.. 
The South Tower. Author Name: Don Gummer. . . The South Tower is an outdoor sculpture by American artist Don Gummer (born 1941). It is located on the Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis (IUPUI) campus, which is near downtown Indianapolis, Indiana, and is owned by the artist. The precarious, leaning sculpture made of frosted aluminum is meant to represent the moment before the South Tower of the World Trade Center fell in the attacks of September 11, 2001.. The South Tower is an outdoor sculpture by American artist Don Gummer (born 1941). It is located on the Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis (IUPUI) campus, which is near downtown Indianapolis, Indiana, and is owned by the artist. The precarious, leaning sculpture made of frosted aluminum is meant to represent the moment before the South Tower of the World Trade Center fell in the attacks of September 11, 2001.. 
St. Augustine in His Studio. Author Name: Vittore Carpaccio. . . St. Augustine in His Study (also called Vision of St. Augustine) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Vittore Carpaccio housed in the Scuola di San Giorgio degli Schiavoni of Venice, northern Italy.. St. Augustine in His Study (also called Vision of St. Augustine) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Vittore Carpaccio housed in the Scuola di San Giorgio degli Schiavoni of Venice, northern Italy.. 
Phantom. Author Name: Lik, Peter. . . Phantom is a photograph made in 2013 by Australian-born landscape photographer Peter Lik. In 2014, Lik alleged that a print was sold to a private collector for $6.5 million which, if true, would make it the most expensive photograph ever sold. However, many in the media and the art industry have expressed skepticism over the claimed sale price, noting that the alleged sale was handled privately, instead of through an independent gallery or through an auction house (which could verify the sale), was to an anonymous buyer, and that no documentation had been provided to confirm the sale. Furthermore, as the Sydney Morning Herald pointed out, Lik's photographs have generally low resale values, and he has a history of self-promotion.. Phantom is a photograph made in 2013 by Australian-born landscape photographer Peter Lik. In 2014, Lik alleged that a print was sold to a private collector for $6.5 million which, if true, would make it the most expensive photograph ever sold. However, many in the media and the art industry have expressed skepticism over the claimed sale price, noting that the alleged sale was handled privately, instead of through an independent gallery or through an auction house (which could verify the sale), was to an anonymous buyer, and that no documentation had been provided to confirm the sale. Furthermore, as the Sydney Morning Herald pointed out, Lik's photographs have generally low resale values, and he has a history of self-promotion. The photograph is a black and white derivative of Lik's previous color image titled "Ghost", and was produced as a unique print. ("Ghost" was produced in an edition of 950 with an additional 45 artist's proofs.) Both images depict a ghost-like figure within a cavern at Antelope Canyon, Arizona.. 
Odalisque. Author Name: Juan Luna. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Odalisque is a famous 1885 painting by awarding Filipino painter and hero Juan Luna. It is one of Luna's so-called "Academic Salon portraits" that followed the standards of proper proportion and perspective, and realistic depictions with "an air of dignity and allure". Although less polished compared to Luna's other works of art, the Odalisque is typical of the well-planned characteristic of the artist's portraits, meaning it was painted in a personal studio while expertly studying the desired effects, and with finesse. The Odalisque is one of the paintings that made Luna as an officially accepted artist at the Salon of Paris because it shows Luna's skill at draftsmanship, his "talent to draw and to draw well". The Odalisque was formerly a part of the painting collection of Philippine . The Odalisque is a famous 1885 painting by awarding Filipino painter and hero Juan Luna. It is one of Luna's so-called "Academic Salon portraits" that followed the standards of proper proportion and perspective, and realistic depictions with "an air of dignity and allure". Although less polished compared to Luna's other works of art, the Odalisque is typical of the well-planned characteristic of the artist's portraits, meaning it was painted in a personal studio while expertly studying the desired effects, and with finesse. The Odalisque is one of the paintings that made Luna as an officially accepted artist at the Salon of Paris because it shows Luna's skill at draftsmanship, his "talent to draw and to draw well". The Odalisque was formerly a part of the painting collection of Philippine national hero José Rizal. It is currently a component of the Don Luis Araneta Collection in the Philippines.. 
A Girl Asleep. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . A Girl Asleep, also known as A Woman Asleep, A Woman Asleep at Table, and A Maid Asleep, is a painting by the Dutch master Johannes Vermeer, 1657. It is housed at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City and may not be lent elsewhere under the terms of the donor's bequest.. A Girl Asleep, also known as A Woman Asleep, A Woman Asleep at Table, and A Maid Asleep, is a painting by the Dutch master Johannes Vermeer, 1657. It is housed at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City and may not be lent elsewhere under the terms of the donor's bequest.. 
Man with Red Hat. Author Name: Vittore Carpaccio. . . Man with a Red Hat is a painting attributed to Italian Renaissance painter Vittore Carpaccio, created around 1490-1493. It is housed in the Museo Correr in Venice.. Man with a Red Hat is a painting attributed to Italian Renaissance painter Vittore Carpaccio, created around 1490-1493. It is housed in the Museo Correr in Venice.. 
The Rape of the Daughters of Leucippus. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Rape of the Daughters of Leucippus is a 1618 painting by Peter Paul Rubens. It is now on show in the Alte Pinakothek in Munich.. The Rape of the Daughters of Leucippus is a 1618 painting by Peter Paul Rubens. It is now on show in the Alte Pinakothek in Munich.. 
Washington Crossing the Delaware. Author Name: Emanuel Leutze. . . Washington Crossing the Delaware is an 1851 oil-on-canvas painting by the German American artist Emanuel Gottlieb Leutze. It commemorates General George Washington's crossing of the Delaware River on the night of December 25–26, 1776, during the American Revolutionary War. That action was the first move in a surprise attack against the Hessian forces at Trenton, New Jersey, in the Battle of Trenton.. Washington Crossing the Delaware is an 1851 oil-on-canvas painting by the German American artist Emanuel Gottlieb Leutze. It commemorates General George Washington's crossing of the Delaware River on the night of December 25–26, 1776, during the American Revolutionary War. That action was the first move in a surprise attack against the Hessian forces at Trenton, New Jersey, in the Battle of Trenton. The original was part of the collection at the Kunsthalle in Bremen, Germany, and was destroyed in a British air raid in 1942, during World War II. Leutze painted two more versions, one of which is now in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. The other was in the West Wing reception area of the White House, but is now in possession of The Minnesota Marine Art Museum in Winona, Minnesota.. 
Strolling Actresses Dressing in a Barn. Author Name: William  Hogarth. . . Strolling Actresses Dressing in a Barn is a painting from 1738 by British artist William Hogarth. It was reproduced as an engraving and issued with Four Times of the Day as a five print set in the same year. The painting depicts a company of actresses preparing for their final performance before the troupe is disbanded as a result of the Licensing Act 1737. Brought in as a result of John Gay's Beggar's Opera of 1728, which had linked Robert Walpole with the notorious criminal Jonathan Wild, the Licensing Act made it compulsory for new plays to be approved by the Lord Chamberlain, and, more importantly for the characters depicted, closed any non-patent theatres. The majority of the painting was completed before the Act was passed in 1737, but its passing into law was no surprise and it was . Strolling Actresses Dressing in a Barn is a painting from 1738 by British artist William Hogarth. It was reproduced as an engraving and issued with Four Times of the Day as a five print set in the same year. The painting depicts a company of actresses preparing for their final performance before the troupe is disbanded as a result of the Licensing Act 1737. Brought in as a result of John Gay's Beggar's Opera of 1728, which had linked Robert Walpole with the notorious criminal Jonathan Wild, the Licensing Act made it compulsory for new plays to be approved by the Lord Chamberlain, and, more importantly for the characters depicted, closed any non-patent theatres. The majority of the painting was completed before the Act was passed in 1737, but its passing into law was no surprise and it was the work of a moment for Hogarth to insert a reference to the Act itself into the picture. While not part of the Four Times of the Day series it appears that it was Hogarth's intention from the outset to sell the five prints together, Strolling Actresses complemented Four Times just as Southwark Fair had done with A Rake's Progress. Whereas the characters in Four Times play their roles without being conscious of acting, the company in this picture are fully aware of the differences between the reality of their lives and the roles they are set to play. Some of the goddesses portrayed by the inhabitants of the scenes in Four Times of the Day are reproduced here as characters in the forthcoming play. The troupe are preparing for the play The Devil to Pay in Heaven, a fiction that was probably intended as a satire on the mystery plays which were heavily controlled by the church. Hogarth contrasts the roles of gods and goddesses that appear in the play with the mortal reality at every turn. The leaky, draughty barn stands in for the heavens in which they will shortly be play acting. The playbill on the bed introduces the cast and aids the viewer in identifying the figures portrayed: Diana, Flora, Juno, Night, Siren, Aurora, Eagle, Cupid, two Devils, a Ghost and attendants. Like other Hogarth prints, such as Southwark Fair and The Enraged Musician, a pretty woman takes centre stage – in this case, Diana, identifiable by her crescent moon headdress, practising her pose. She imitates the Diana of Versailles, but she looks foolish as she has neither quiver nor arrows. Her hooped petticoat has fallen to her feet, exposing her thighs, and the low neckline of her shirt reveals her breasts; she is anything but the chaste goddess. She acknowledges the attention of the viewer with a slight smile. To her left Flora, is dusting her hair with a flour-shaker in front of a broken mirror propped up by a candle, in an effort to prepare herself for the role of the fertility goddess. Cupid "floats" above them with the aid of a ladder, fetching two stockings for Apollo, identifiable from the sun on her head, who points out theig hanging place, on a cloud beneath a dragon, with the aid of a bow. Next to the actress playing Diana, two children dressed as devils help themselves to a mug of beer left on the altar like a sacrifice. A woman next to them (possibly their mother) is shocked by their behaviour but has her hands full assisting the "ghost" to bleed a cat from its tail. As with many of Hogarth's cats, this one is reaping the rewards of life as an outsider. An old wives' tale of the time claimed that to recover from a bad fall you should suck the blood from the freshly amputated tail of a tom cat. Here the cat has the role forced upon it in the same way as the actresses fill inappropriate roles. Above the women in this corner, a face peers down through the opening in the barn roof. Here a low mortal looks down on the gods from heaven, rather than the other way round. He fills the role of Actaeon, who accidentally saw Diana naked and was changed into a stag and torn apart by his own hounds as punishment. Here though the viewing of Diana is intentional. In the right foreground, Juno practices her lines, while Night, identifiable by her star-spangled headdress, darns a hole in her stocking. In front of Night and Juno is Hogarth's take on a vanitas, but here the symbols of death are replaced by comic figures: a monkey wearing a cloak urinates into a helmet; one kitten plays with an orb while another plays with a harp; bags and coffee pots litter the table. The monkey and kittens presumably fill the roles of attendants mentioned in the playbill; their play acting as a human serves to highlight further the difference between acting and reality. To the left of the picture, Ganymede, who is not yet fully dressed, accepts a drink of gin to ease the pain of his toothache from the Siren, who is being attended by Aurora, identified by the morning star on her headdress. In the foreground Jove's eagle feeds her child, the food rests on a crown with a small folded paper bearing the title The Act against Strolling Players. Next to her, Ganymede's breeches lie on the small bed adjacent to the playbill which is slipping perilously close to the chamberpot. Horace Walpole (the son of Robert Walpole, the First Lord of the Treasury, who had pushed through the Licensing Act) rated Strolling Actresses as Hogarth's greatest work "for wit and imagination, without any other end", but Charles Lamb, while acknowledging the sense of activity and camaraderie, found the characters lacking in expressiveness. The engraving was first published on 25 March 1738, along with Four Times of the Day. The painting was sold at auction along with the original paintings for A Harlot's Progress, A Rake's Progress and Four Times of the Day in January 1745, but was destroyed in a fire at Littleton House near Staines in 1874.. 
The Concert. Author Name: Johannes Vermeer. . Author Movement: Baroque. . The Concert (c. 1664) is a painting by Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer. The 69-centimeter-high by 63-centimeter-wide picture depicts a man and two women playing music. It belongs to the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston, but was stolen in 1990 and remains missing. It is thought to be the most valuable unrecovered stolen painting, with a value estimated at over $200,000,000.. The Concert (c. 1664) is a painting by Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer. The 69-centimeter-high by 63-centimeter-wide picture depicts a man and two women playing music. It belongs to the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston, but was stolen in 1990 and remains missing. It is thought to be the most valuable unrecovered stolen painting, with a value estimated at over $200,000,000.. 
Tete de femme. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Tete de femme (Dora Maar) is a plaster-modelled, bronze-cast sculpture by Pablo Picasso. Dora Maar, Picasso's lover at the time, was the subject of the work which was originally conceived in 1941. Four copies of the bust were cast in the 1950s, several years after the relationship ended.. Tete de femme (Dora Maar) is a plaster-modelled, bronze-cast sculpture by Pablo Picasso. Dora Maar, Picasso's lover at the time, was the subject of the work which was originally conceived in 1941. Four copies of the bust were cast in the 1950s, several years after the relationship ended.. 
Fine Wind, Clear Morning. Author Name: Hokusai. . . Fine Wind, Clear Morning (Japanese: 凱風快晴 Gaifū kaisei), also known as South Wind, Clear Sky  or Red Fuji, is wood block print by Japanese artist Hokusai (1760–1849), part of his Thirty-six Views of Mount Fuji series. It dates from about 1830–32, the Edo period, and is currently held by museums worldwide, including the British Museum in London, the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City, and the Indianapolis Museum of Art.. Fine Wind, Clear Morning (Japanese: 凱風快晴 Gaifū kaisei), also known as South Wind, Clear Sky or Red Fuji, is wood block print by Japanese artist Hokusai (1760–1849), part of his Thirty-six Views of Mount Fuji series. It dates from about 1830–32, the Edo period, and is currently held by museums worldwide, including the British Museum in London, the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City, and the Indianapolis Museum of Art.. 
The Sentry. Author Name: Carel Fabritius. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Delft_School_(painting). . The Sentry is a 1654 painting of a resting sentry and a dog by Carel Fabritius. It is an oil painting on canvas of 68 by 58 cm (27 by 23 in). The work is in the collection of the Staatliches Museum in Schwerin and was restored in 2004.. The Sentry is a 1654 painting of a resting sentry and a dog by Carel Fabritius. It is an oil painting on canvas of 68 by 58 cm (27 by 23 in). The work is in the collection of the Staatliches Museum in Schwerin and was restored in 2004.. 
Black Sun. Author Name: Isamu Noguchi. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Biomorphism. . Black Sun is a 1969 sculpture by Isamu Noguchi located in Seattle, Washington's Volunteer Park. The statue is situated on the eastern edge of the park's man-made reservoir, across from the Seattle Asian Art Museum. The view from the sculpture includes the Space Needle, Olympic Mountains, and Elliott Bay.. Black Sun is a 1969 sculpture by Isamu Noguchi located in Seattle, Washington's Volunteer Park. The statue is situated on the eastern edge of the park's man-made reservoir, across from the Seattle Asian Art Museum. The view from the sculpture includes the Space Needle, Olympic Mountains, and Elliott Bay.. 
Flaming June. Author Name: (PRA). . Author Movement: Academicism, Neoclassicism and British Aestheticism http://ateneum.fi/en/frederic-leighton. . Flaming June is a painting by Sir Frederic Leighton, produced in 1895. Painted with oil paints on a 47-by-47-inch (1,200 mm × 1,200 mm) square canvas, it is widely considered to be Leighton's magnum opus, showing his classicist nature. It is thought that the woman portrayed alludes to the figures of sleeping nymphs and naiads the Greeks often sculpted. The toxic oleander branch in the top right symbolizes the fragile link between sleep and death.. Flaming June is a painting by Sir Frederic Leighton, produced in 1895. Painted with oil paints on a 47-by-47-inch (1,200 mm × 1,200 mm) square canvas, it is widely considered to be Leighton's magnum opus, showing his classicist nature. It is thought that the woman portrayed alludes to the figures of sleeping nymphs and naiads the Greeks often sculpted. The toxic oleander branch in the top right symbolizes the fragile link between sleep and death. The actresses Dorothy Dene and Mary Lloyd, who were depicted in paintings by various Pre-Raphaelite artists, have been variously credited with modelling for the work. Flaming June was auctioned in the 1960s, during a period of time known to be difficult for selling Victorian era paintings, where it failed to sell for its low reserve price of US$140 (the equivalent of $840 in contemporary prices). Afterwards, it was promptly purchased by the Museo de Arte de Ponce in Ponce, Puerto Rico, where it currently resides.. 
Washington Monument. Author Name: Park, Richard Henry. . . The Washington Monument is a public artwork by American artist Richard Henry Park located on the Court of Honor, which is near Marquette University in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The bronze sculpture is a full-length portrait of a 43-year-old George Washington. The sculpture stands on a granite pedestal, and a bronze woman points up at Washington while a child, also made out of bronze, gazes upward.. The Washington Monument is a public artwork by American artist Richard Henry Park located on the Court of Honor, which is near Marquette University in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The bronze sculpture is a full-length portrait of a 43-year-old George Washington. The sculpture stands on a granite pedestal, and a bronze woman points up at Washington while a child, also made out of bronze, gazes upward.. 
Portrait of Isabella of Portugal. Author Name: Titian. . . The Portrait of Isabella of Portugal is an oil-on-canvas portrait of Isabella of Portugal by Titian dating to 1548. It was part of the Spanish royal collection and is now in the Museo del Prado in Madrid.. The Portrait of Isabella of Portugal is an oil-on-canvas portrait of Isabella of Portugal by Titian dating to 1548. It was part of the Spanish royal collection and is now in the Museo del Prado in Madrid.. 
Christ Driving the Money Changers from the Temple. Author Name: El Greco. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . Christ Driving the Money Changers from the Temple is a 1600 painting by El Greco, now in the National Gallery in London, England. It depicts the Cleansing of the Temple, an event in the Life of Christ.There exist four copies of the painting and also a faithful reproduction in the National Gallery in London, which has recently been considered as authentic by scholars in the field of visual arts. Two versions and that other on loan from Madrid are titled Purification of the Temple. The one at the National Gallery in Washington is called Christ Cleansing the Temple.. Christ Driving the Money Changers from the Temple is a 1600 painting by El Greco, now in the National Gallery in London, England. It depicts the Cleansing of the Temple, an event in the Life of Christ. There exist four copies of the painting and also a faithful reproduction in the National Gallery in London, which has recently been considered as authentic by scholars in the field of visual arts. Two versions and that other on loan from Madrid are titled Purification of the Temple. The one at the National Gallery in Washington is called Christ Cleansing the Temple.. 
Ferdinand Lured by Ariel. Author Name: Sir John Everett Millais, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pre-Raphaelite_Brotherhood. . Ferdinand Lured by Ariel is a painting by John Everett Millais which depicts an episode from Act I, Scene II of Shakespeare's play The Tempest. It illustrates Ferdinand's lines "Where should this music be? i' the air or the earth?". He is listening to Ariel singing the lyric "Full fathom five thy father lies". Ariel is tipping Ferdinand's hat from his head, while Ferdinand holds on to its string and strains to hear the song. Ferdinand looks straight at Ariel, but the latter is invisible to him.. Ferdinand Lured by Ariel is a painting by John Everett Millais which depicts an episode from Act I, Scene II of Shakespeare's play The Tempest. It illustrates Ferdinand's lines "Where should this music be? i' the air or the earth?". He is listening to Ariel singing the lyric "Full fathom five thy father lies". Ariel is tipping Ferdinand's hat from his head, while Ferdinand holds on to its string and strains to hear the song. Ferdinand looks straight at Ariel, but the latter is invisible to him. The painting was Millais' first attempt at the plein air Pre-Raphaelite style, which he did at Shotover Park near Oxford. He wrote to his close friend and Pre-Raphaelite colleague Holman Hunt that he had painted a "ridiculously elaborate" landscape. Referring to Hunt's belief in devotion to detail he wrote that "you will find it very minute, yet not near enough for nature. To paint it as it ought to be would take me a month a weed — as it is, I have done every blade of grass and leaf distinct." He painted the face of Ferdinand from another Pre-Raphaelite, Frederic George Stephens. The clothing and the pose are derived from plate 6 of Camille Bonnard's Costumes Historiques, which represents the costume of a "young Italian" of the fifteenth century. The supernatural green bats were the last additions to the composition. Their grotesque poses put off the patron who had originally undertaken to buy it, since they were a radical departure from the standard sylph-like fairy figures of the day. They adopt the poses of "see, hear, speak no evil." The invisibility of Ariel and the bats is suggested by their semi-merger with the green background. The connection with natural camouflage is implied by the presence of the green lizards hiding in front of the clump in the right foreground. The painting was bought by the collector Richard Ellison, and later entered the collection of Roger Makins, 1st Baron Sherfield who acquired several Millais paintings.. 
Virgin of the Angels. Author Name: Serra, Pere. . . The Virgin of the Angels is a painting by Pere Serra conserved at the National Art Museum of Catalonia.. The Virgin of the Angels is a painting by Pere Serra conserved at the National Art Museum of Catalonia.. 
Annunziata Polyptych - Deposition from the Cross. Author Name: Filippino Lippi. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Annunziata Polyptych is a painting cycle started by Filippino Lippi and finished by Pietro Perugino, whose central panel is now divided between the Galleria dell'Accademia (Deposition from the Cross) and the Basilica dell'Annunziata, both in Florence, Italy. The polyptych had other six panels, which are housed in the Lindenau-Museum of Altenburg, the Metropolitan Museum of New York, the Galleria Nazionale d'Arte Antica in Rome and in a private collection in South Africa.. The Annunziata Polyptych is a painting cycle started by Filippino Lippi and finished by Pietro Perugino, whose central panel is now divided between the Galleria dell'Accademia (Deposition from the Cross) and the Basilica dell'Annunziata, both in Florence, Italy. The polyptych had other six panels, which are housed in the Lindenau-Museum of Altenburg, the Metropolitan Museum of New York, the Galleria Nazionale d'Arte Antica in Rome and in a private collection in South Africa.. 
Portlandia. Author Name: Raymond Kaskey. . . Portlandia is a sculpture by Raymond Kaskey located above the entrance of the Portland Building, in downtown Portland, Oregon, at 1120 SW 5th Avenue. It is the second-largest copper repoussé statue in the United States, after the Statue of Liberty.The statue is based on the design of the city seal. It depicts a woman dressed in classical clothes, holding a trident in the left hand and reaching down with the right hand. The statue is above street level, and faces a relatively narrow, tree-lined street. An accompanying plaque contains a poem by Portland resident Ronald Talney.. Portlandia is a sculpture by Raymond Kaskey located above the entrance of the Portland Building, in downtown Portland, Oregon, at 1120 SW 5th Avenue. It is the second-largest copper repoussé statue in the United States, after the Statue of Liberty. The statue is based on the design of the city seal. It depicts a woman dressed in classical clothes, holding a trident in the left hand and reaching down with the right hand. The statue is above street level, and faces a relatively narrow, tree-lined street. An accompanying plaque contains a poem by Portland resident Ronald Talney.. 
Count Lepic and His Daughters. Author Name: Edgar Degas. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Count Lepic and His Daughters is an 1870 painting by Edgar Degas. On February 10, 2008, the painting was stolen from Foundation E.G. Bührle in Zürich, Switzerland. It was recovered in April 2012 with slight damage.Degas also painted Viscount Ludovic-Napoléon Lepic in the 1875 painting, Place de la Concorde.. Count Lepic and His Daughters is an 1870 painting by Edgar Degas. On February 10, 2008, the painting was stolen from Foundation E.G. Bührle in Zürich, Switzerland. It was recovered in April 2012 with slight damage. Degas also painted Viscount Ludovic-Napoléon Lepic in the 1875 painting, Place de la Concorde.. 
Sofala. Author Name: Sir Russell Drysdale. . . Sofala is a 1947 painting by Australian artist Russell Drysdale. The painting depicts the main street of the New South Wales town of Sofala. The painting won the Wynne Prize for 1947. The Art Gallery of New South Wales describe the work as "one of [his] finest paintings, representing the artist at the height of his powers." and that "the painting transcends literal description of a particular place to become an expression of the quintessential qualities of an inland Australian country town".. Sofala is a 1947 painting by Australian artist Russell Drysdale. The painting depicts the main street of the New South Wales town of Sofala. The painting won the Wynne Prize for 1947. The Art Gallery of New South Wales describe the work as "one of [his] finest paintings, representing the artist at the height of his powers." and that "the painting transcends literal description of a particular place to become an expression of the quintessential qualities of an inland Australian country town". Drysdale painted the work after a trip in 1947 with fellow painter Donald Friend to the country around Bathurst, including the villages of Hill End and Sofala. In Sofala, Drysdale made some sketches of the main street and took some photographs. On return to Sydney, both Friend and Drysdale worked on a painting of the main street. Friend said of Drysdale: The painting was exhibited in the Macquarie Galleries in December 1947. During this exhibition, Hal Missingham—Director of the Art Gallery of New South Wales—nominated the painting for the Wynne Prize. The awarding of the Prize to Sofala "marked a dramatic move away from the traditional pastoral imagery of Australian landscape painting". Following the award the art critic for the Sydney Morning Herald said of the work: The painting was originally purchased by John Stephen, Drysdale's brother-in-law. It was acquired in 1952 by the Art Gallery of New South Wales in Sydney. Several of the buildings in the painting can still be seen in Denison St, Sofala, including the Royal Hotel in the left foreground and the former hospital in the middle distance.. 
Madonna Solly. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Solly Madonna by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael was painted somewhere between 1500 and 1504.An early work, it clearly shows the influence of Raphael's teacher Perugino. Two motifs in this work would recur in later Madonnas by Raphael. The virgin Mary is reading a book, as in the Madonna and Child in the Norton Simon Museum, the Connestabile Madonna, the Madonna Colonna and the Madonna del cardellino. As in that last painting a small bird, a goldfinch, is part of the scene.. The Solly Madonna by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael was painted somewhere between 1500 and 1504. An early work, it clearly shows the influence of Raphael's teacher Perugino. Two motifs in this work would recur in later Madonnas by Raphael. The virgin Mary is reading a book, as in the Madonna and Child in the Norton Simon Museum, the Connestabile Madonna, the Madonna Colonna and the Madonna del cardellino. As in that last painting a small bird, a goldfinch, is part of the scene. The painting is located in the Gemäldegalerie, Berlin. It is called the Solly Madonna because it was owned by the British banker and art collector Edward Solly (1776–1848).. 
The Deposition. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Deposition (also called the Florence Pietà, the Bandini Pietà or The Lamentation over the Dead Christ) is a marble sculpture by the Italian High Renaissance master Michelangelo. The sculpture, on which Michelangelo worked between 1547 and 1553, depicts four figures: the dead body of Jesus Christ, newly taken down from the Cross, Nicodemus (or possibly Joseph of Arimathea), Mary Magdalene and the Virgin Mary. The sculpture is housed in the Museo dell'Opera del Duomo in Florence.According to Vasari, Michelangelo made the Florence Pietà to decorate his tomb in Santa Maria Maggiore in Rome.. The Deposition (also called the Florence Pietà, the Bandini Pietà or The Lamentation over the Dead Christ) is a marble sculpture by the Italian High Renaissance master Michelangelo. The sculpture, on which Michelangelo worked between 1547 and 1553, depicts four figures: the dead body of Jesus Christ, newly taken down from the Cross, Nicodemus (or possibly Joseph of Arimathea), Mary Magdalene and the Virgin Mary. The sculpture is housed in the Museo dell'Opera del Duomo in Florence. According to Vasari, Michelangelo made the Florence Pietà to decorate his tomb in Santa Maria Maggiore in Rome. Vasari noted that Michelangelo began to work on the sculpture around the age of 72. Without commission, Michelangelo worked tirelessly into the night with just a single candle to illuminate his work. Vasari wrote that he began to work on this piece to amuse his mind and to keep his body healthy. After 8 years of working on the piece, Michelangelo would go on and attempt to destroy the work in a fit of frustration. This marked the end of Michelangelo's work on the piece and from there the piece found itself in the hands of Francesco Bandini, who hired an apprentice sculptor, by the name of Tiberius Calcagni,.to restore the work to its current composition. Since its inception, the piece has been plagued by ambiguities and never ending interpretations, with no straightforward answers available. The face of Nicodemus under the hood is considered to be a self-portrait of Michelangelo himself.. 
Diana and Endymion. Author Name: Francesco Solimena. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Diana and Endymion is a painting by Francesco Solimena undertaken from 1705 until 1710. The painting depicts the Roman goddess Diana, one of the twelve Gods and Goddesses of Olympus, falling in love with Endymion. The story tells of Diana's love for the beautiful youth Endymion. The painting is hosted at the National Museums Liverpool, that purchased the painting in 1966, and holds it as one of the museums highlights.. Diana and Endymion is a painting by Francesco Solimena undertaken from 1705 until 1710. The painting depicts the Roman goddess Diana, one of the twelve Gods and Goddesses of Olympus, falling in love with Endymion. The story tells of Diana's love for the beautiful youth Endymion. The painting is hosted at the National Museums Liverpool, that purchased the painting in 1966, and holds it as one of the museums highlights.. 
Head of Christ. Author Name: Antonio da Correggio. . Author Movement: Mannerism. . Head of Christ is a painting in oil on panel by the Italian Renaissance painter Correggio, (Antonio Allegri, 1489 – 1534), dated 1521. It depicts the head of Christ, wearing the crown of thorns. In the background there is a white cloth showing that the image represents the Veil of Veronica, but Christ's head is given volume through alternate use of light and dark shadows. The painting is in the J. Paul Getty Museum in Malibu, Los Angeles. Correggio was noted for creating some of the most sumptuous religious paintings of the period. The Getty Museum considers this artwork as one of the masterpieces of painting held by the museum.. Head of Christ is a painting in oil on panel by the Italian Renaissance painter Correggio, (Antonio Allegri, 1489 – 1534), dated 1521. It depicts the head of Christ, wearing the crown of thorns. In the background there is a white cloth showing that the image represents the Veil of Veronica, but Christ's head is given volume through alternate use of light and dark shadows. The painting is in the J. Paul Getty Museum in Malibu, Los Angeles. Correggio was noted for creating some of the most sumptuous religious paintings of the period. The Getty Museum considers this artwork as one of the masterpieces of painting held by the museum.. 
Au Vélodrome. Author Name: Jean Metzinger. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Au Vélodrome, also known as At the Cycle-Race Track and Le cycliste, is a painting by the French artist and theorist Jean Metzinger. The work illustrates the final meters of the Paris–Roubaix race, and portrays its 1912 winner Charles Crupelandt. Metzinger's painting is the first in Modernist art to represent a specific sporting event and its champion.From 9 June to 16 September 2012 the painting was the subject of an exhibition in Venice entitled Cycling, Cubo‐Futurism and the 4th Dimension. Jean Metzinger’s "At the Cycle‐Race Track".. Au Vélodrome, also known as At the Cycle-Race Track and Le cycliste, is a painting by the French artist and theorist Jean Metzinger. The work illustrates the final meters of the Paris–Roubaix race, and portrays its 1912 winner Charles Crupelandt. Metzinger's painting is the first in Modernist art to represent a specific sporting event and its champion. Au Vélodrome remained in Metzinger's atelier until it was shipped to New York, where it was shown to the public for the first time, 8 March to 3 April, at the Third Exhibition of Contemporary French Art, Carstairs (Carroll) Gallery—with works by Pach, Gleizes, Picasso, de la Fresnaye, Van Gogh, Gauguin, Derain, Duchamp, Duchamp-Villon and Villon. On 10 February 1916 the American collector John Quinn acquired Au Vélodrome and the Racing Cyclist. Both works by Metzinger had been on view in the Carroll Galleries exhibition. The acquisition was preceded by a lively correspondence between Quinn, the gallery manager Harriet Bryant, and the artist's brother Maurice Metzinger. In 1927 an exhibition and sale of Quinn's art collection took place in New York City. The sale was conducted by Otto Bernet and Hiram H. Parke at the American Art Galleries. A catalogue was published for the occasion by the American Art Association. Au Vélodrome (n. 266 of the catalogue) was purchased at the sale for $70 by American art dealer and publisher J. B. Neumann. Peggy Guggenheim purchased the painting from Neumann in 1945 and forms part of the permanent collection of her museum in Venice; Peggy Guggenheim Collection. From 9 June to 16 September 2012 the painting was the subject of an exhibition in Venice entitled Cycling, Cubo‐Futurism and the 4th Dimension. Jean Metzinger’s "At the Cycle‐Race Track".. 
Retrato de Luis Muñoz Marín. Author Name: Rodon. . . Retrato de Luis Muñoz Marín (Portrait of Luis Muñoz Marín) is a 1977 oil painting by the Puerto Rican artist Francisco Rodón of the first democratically elected governor of Puerto Rico.. Retrato de Luis Muñoz Marín (Portrait of Luis Muñoz Marín) is a 1977 oil painting by the Puerto Rican artist Francisco Rodón of the first democratically elected governor of Puerto Rico.. 
The Balcony. Author Name: Édouard Manet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Balcony (French: Le balcon) is an 1868 oil painting by the French painter Édouard Manet and was exhibited at the Paris Salon of 1869. The painting depicts four figures. On the left is Berthe Morisot, who became in 1874 the wife of Manet's brother, Eugène. In the centre is the painter Jean Baptiste Antoine Guillemet. On the right is Fanny Claus, a violinist. The fourth figure, partially obscured in the interior's background, is possibly Leon Leenhoff, Manet's son. The painting was sold by Gustave Caillebotte in 1884 and is currently kept at the Musée d'Orsay, in Paris.. The Balcony (French: Le balcon) is an 1868 oil painting by the French painter Édouard Manet and was exhibited at the Paris Salon of 1869. The painting depicts four figures. On the left is Berthe Morisot, who became in 1874 the wife of Manet's brother, Eugène. In the centre is the painter Jean Baptiste Antoine Guillemet. On the right is Fanny Claus, a violinist. The fourth figure, partially obscured in the interior's background, is possibly Leon Leenhoff, Manet's son. The painting was sold by Gustave Caillebotte in 1884 and is currently kept at the Musée d'Orsay, in Paris.. 
Stormy Landscape. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Events from the year 1638 in art.. Events from the year 1638 in art.. 
Interior. Author Name: Edgar Degas. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Interior (French: Intérieur), also known as The Rape (French: Le Viol), is an oil painting on canvas by Edgar Degas (1834–1917), painted in 1868–1869. Described as "the most puzzling of Degas's major works", it depicts a tense confrontation by lamplight between a man and a partially undressed woman. The theatrical character of the scene has led art historians to seek a literary source for the composition, but none of the sources proposed has met with universal acceptance. Even the painting's title is uncertain; acquaintances of the artist referred to it either as Le Viol or Intérieur, and it was under the latter title that Degas exhibited it for the first time in 1905. The painting is housed in the Philadelphia Museum of Art.. Interior (French: Intérieur), also known as The Rape (French: Le Viol), is an oil painting on canvas by Edgar Degas (1834–1917), painted in 1868–1869. Described as "the most puzzling of Degas's major works", it depicts a tense confrontation by lamplight between a man and a partially undressed woman. The theatrical character of the scene has led art historians to seek a literary source for the composition, but none of the sources proposed has met with universal acceptance. Even the painting's title is uncertain; acquaintances of the artist referred to it either as Le Viol or Intérieur, and it was under the latter title that Degas exhibited it for the first time in 1905. The painting is housed in the Philadelphia Museum of Art.. 
Venus Blindfolding Cupid. Author Name: Titian. . . Venus Blindfolding Cupid is a c.1565 painting by Titian, now in the Galleria Borghese in Rome.. Venus Blindfolding Cupid is a c.1565 painting by Titian, now in the Galleria Borghese in Rome.. 
Taste in High Life. Author Name: William  Hogarth. . . Taste in High Life is an oil-on-canvas painting (engraving seen on the right) from around 1742, by William Hogarth. The version seen on the right was engraved by Samuel Phillips in 1798, under commission from John Boydell for a posthumous edition of Hogarth's works, but Phillips's final, third state was not published until 1808.. Taste in High Life is an oil-on-canvas painting (engraving seen on the right) from around 1742, by William Hogarth. The version seen on the right was engraved by Samuel Phillips in 1798, under commission from John Boydell for a posthumous edition of Hogarth's works, but Phillips's final, third state was not published until 1808.. 
Equestrian Portrait of Charles I. Author Name: Anthony van Dyck. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Equestrian Portrait of Charles I (also known as Charles I on Horseback) is an oil painting on canvas by Anthony van Dyck, showing Charles I on horseback. Charles I had become King of Great Britain and Ireland in 1625 on the death of his father James I, and Van Dyck became the Charles' Principal Painter in Ordinary in 1632.The portrait is thought to have been painted in about 1637–38, only a few years before the English Civil War broke out in 1642. It is one of many portraits of Charles by Van Dyck, including several equestrian portraits.It is held by the National Gallery, London.. The Equestrian Portrait of Charles I (also known as Charles I on Horseback) is an oil painting on canvas by Anthony van Dyck, showing Charles I on horseback. Charles I had become King of Great Britain and Ireland in 1625 on the death of his father James I, and Van Dyck became the Charles' Principal Painter in Ordinary in 1632. The portrait is thought to have been painted in about 1637–38, only a few years before the English Civil War broke out in 1642. It is one of many portraits of Charles by Van Dyck, including several equestrian portraits. It is held by the National Gallery, London.. 
Woman with a Hat. Author Name: Henri Matisse. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Fauvism. . Woman with a Hat (La femme au chapeau) is a painting by Henri Matisse. An oil on canvas, it depicts Matisse's wife, Amelie. It was painted in 1905 and exhibited at the Salon d'Automne during the fall of the same year, along with works by André Derain, Maurice de Vlaminck and several other artists known as "Fauves".. Woman with a Hat (La femme au chapeau) is a painting by Henri Matisse. An oil on canvas, it depicts Matisse's wife, Amelie. It was painted in 1905 and exhibited at the Salon d'Automne during the fall of the same year, along with works by André Derain, Maurice de Vlaminck and several other artists known as "Fauves". Critic Louis Vauxcelles, in comparing the paintings of Matisse and his associates with a Renaissance-type sculpture that shared the room with them, used with the phrase "Donatello chez les fauves..." (Donatello among the wild beasts). His comment was printed on 17 October 1905 in Gil Blas, a daily newspaper, and passed into popular usage. Woman with a Hat was at the center of the controversy that led to the term Fauvism. It was also a painting that marked a stylistic shift in the work of Matisse from the Divisionist brushstrokes of his earlier work to a more expressive style. Its loose brushwork and "unfinished" quality shocking viewers as much as its vivid, non-naturalistic colors. Although the Fauve works on display were condemned by many—"A pot of paint has been flung in the face of the public", declared the critic Camille Mauclair—they also gained some favorable attention. The painting that was singled out for attacks was Matisse's Woman with a Hat, which was bought by Gertrude and Leo Stein: this had a very positive effect on Matisse's morale, which had suffered with the bad reception of his work. Sarah Stein, the wife of Gertrude and Leo's elder brother Michael, claimed to have been the original purchaser of this painting, not Gertrude (Leo did not like the painting at first). One can see it in photographs of Sarah and Michael's home on Rue Madame. It was a centerpiece in Sarah's home in Palo Alto, California for many years. During the 1950s, in San Francisco, it was bought by the Haas family. In 1990 Elise S. Haas bequeathed thirty-seven paintings, sculptures and works on paper to the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, among them Femme au chapeau.. 
Ulysses and the Sirens. Author Name: Herbert James Draper. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Classicism. . Ulysses and the Sirens is a 1909 oil painting by Herbert James Draper measuring 69.25 x 84 in. It is held at the Ferens Art Gallery in Kingston upon Hull, England. The gallery purchased the painting from Draper in 1910 for £600. Draper also painted a reduced replica that is housed at the Leeds Art Gallery. The subject of the painting is an episode in the epic poem Odyssey by Homer in which Ulysses is tormented by the voices of Sirens, although there are only two Sirens in Homer's poem and they stay in a meadow. The painting depicts Ulysses tied to the mast and forcibly attendant to the Sirens' seductions. Although the Sirens were depicted in ancient Greek art as scary, ugly creatures, Draper maintains the spirit but not the content of the story by transferring the Sirens' seductiveness fro. Ulysses and the Sirens is a 1909 oil painting by Herbert James Draper measuring 69.25 x 84 in. It is held at the Ferens Art Gallery in Kingston upon Hull, England. The gallery purchased the painting from Draper in 1910 for £600. Draper also painted a reduced replica that is housed at the Leeds Art Gallery. The subject of the painting is an episode in the epic poem Odyssey by Homer in which Ulysses is tormented by the voices of Sirens, although there are only two Sirens in Homer's poem and they stay in a meadow. The painting depicts Ulysses tied to the mast and forcibly attendant to the Sirens' seductions. Although the Sirens were depicted in ancient Greek art as scary, ugly creatures, Draper maintains the spirit but not the content of the story by transferring the Sirens' seductiveness from their song to a visible form, depicting the Sirens as beautiful mermaids who invade Ulysses' ship. The Sirens are nude and their tails disappear as they board the ship. Draper's conflation of Sirens with mermaids and his sexualization of these figures are consistent with other artwork of the Victorian and Edwardian eras. Norwegian social theorist Jon Elster used the name of Draper's painting as the title for his 1979 book about rationality and precommitment.. 
St. Paul. Author Name: Masaccio. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . St. Paul is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Masaccio. It depicts Paul of Tarsus.A chapel in Santa Maria del Carmine in Pisa commissioned an altarpiece from Masaccio on February 19, 1426 for the sum of 80 florins. Payment for the work was recorded on December 26 of that year. The altarpiece was dismantled and dispersed in the 18th century, but an attempted reconstruction was made possible due to a detailed description of the work by Vasari in 1568. Eleven pieces have been found as of 2010, and they are insufficient to reliably reconstruct the whole work. The Crucifixion is one of the surviving panels connected with the Pisa Altarpiece (also known as the Pisa Polyptych). This piece is the only portion of the commissioned work which remains in Pisa.. St. Paul is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Masaccio. It depicts Paul of Tarsus. A chapel in Santa Maria del Carmine in Pisa commissioned an altarpiece from Masaccio on February 19, 1426 for the sum of 80 florins. Payment for the work was recorded on December 26 of that year. The altarpiece was dismantled and dispersed in the 18th century, but an attempted reconstruction was made possible due to a detailed description of the work by Vasari in 1568. Eleven pieces have been found as of 2010, and they are insufficient to reliably reconstruct the whole work. The Crucifixion is one of the surviving panels connected with the Pisa Altarpiece (also known as the Pisa Polyptych). This piece is the only portion of the commissioned work which remains in Pisa.. 
Perseus and Andromeda. Author Name: (PRA). . Author Movement: Academicism, Neoclassicism and British Aestheticism http://ateneum.fi/en/frederic-leighton. . Perseus and Andromeda is an oil painting by Lord Frederic Leighton. Completed in 1891, the year it was displayed at the Royal Academy of Arts, it depicts the Greek mythological story of Andromeda. In contrast to the basis on a classical tale, Leighton used a Gothic style for the artwork. The painting is in the collection of National Museums Liverpool at the Walker Art Gallery.. Perseus and Andromeda is an oil painting by Lord Frederic Leighton. Completed in 1891, the year it was displayed at the Royal Academy of Arts, it depicts the Greek mythological story of Andromeda. In contrast to the basis on a classical tale, Leighton used a Gothic style for the artwork. The painting is in the collection of National Museums Liverpool at the Walker Art Gallery.. 
L'homme à la tulipe. Author Name: Georges Seurat. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_art. . Divisionism (also called Chromoluminarism) was the characteristic style in Neo-Impressionist painting defined by the separation of colors into individual dots or patches which interacted optically.By requiring the viewer to combine the colors optically instead of physically mixing pigments, Divisionists believed they were achieving the maximum luminosity scientifically possible. Georges Seurat founded the style around 1884 as chromoluminarism, drawing from his understanding of the scientific theories of Michel Eugène Chevreul, Ogden Rood and Charles Blanc, among others. Divisionism developed along with another style, Pointillism, which is defined specifically by the use of dots of paint and does not necessarily focus on the separation of colors.. Divisionism (also called Chromoluminarism) was the characteristic style in Neo-Impressionist painting defined by the separation of colors into individual dots or patches which interacted optically. By requiring the viewer to combine the colors optically instead of physically mixing pigments, Divisionists believed they were achieving the maximum luminosity scientifically possible. Georges Seurat founded the style around 1884 as chromoluminarism, drawing from his understanding of the scientific theories of Michel Eugène Chevreul, Ogden Rood and Charles Blanc, among others. Divisionism developed along with another style, Pointillism, which is defined specifically by the use of dots of paint and does not necessarily focus on the separation of colors.. 
Sacajawea and Jean-Baptiste. Author Name: Cooper, Alice. . . Sacajawea and Jean-Baptiste is a bronze sculpture of Sacagawea and Jean Baptiste Charbonneau by American artist Alice Cooper, located in Washington Park in Portland, Oregon, in the United States.. Sacajawea and Jean-Baptiste is a bronze sculpture of Sacagawea and Jean Baptiste Charbonneau by American artist Alice Cooper, located in Washington Park in Portland, Oregon, in the United States.. 
Great Peacock Moth. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Butterflies is a series paintings made by Vincent van Gogh in 1889 and 1890. Van Gogh made at least four paintings of butterflies and one of a moth. The metamorphosis of the caterpillar into a butterfly was symbolic to Van Gogh of men and women's capability for transformation.. Butterflies is a series paintings made by Vincent van Gogh in 1889 and 1890. Van Gogh made at least four paintings of butterflies and one of a moth. The metamorphosis of the caterpillar into a butterfly was symbolic to Van Gogh of men and women's capability for transformation.. 
Stele II. Author Name: Ellsworth Kelly. . . Stele II is an abstract sculpture, constructed in 1973, by Ellsworth Kelly.Located at the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden, it reflects the artist's move to the countryside, and landscape.. Stele II is an abstract sculpture, constructed in 1973, by Ellsworth Kelly. Located at the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden, it reflects the artist's move to the countryside, and landscape.. 
Always Becoming. Author Name: Naranjo-Morse, Nora. . . 'Always Becoming' is an artwork created in 2007 by Nora Naranjo-Morse (born 1953), a Native American Potter and poet. She currently resides in Española, New Mexico, just north of Santa Fe and is a member of the Santa Clara Pueblo.. 'Always Becoming' is an artwork created in 2007 by Nora Naranjo-Morse (born 1953), a Native American Potter and poet. She currently resides in Española, New Mexico, just north of Santa Fe and is a member of the Santa Clara Pueblo.. 
Mound of the Unbeaten. Author Name: Bogdan Bogdanović. . . Mound of the Unbeaten (Macedonian: Могила на непобедените) is a World War II memorial in the Park of the Revolution, Prilep, Republic of Macedonia. The monument and memorial complex were built in 1961 in honor to the martyrs and fallen fighters of the People's Liberation Struggle in Macedonia. Author of the memorial complex is Serbian architect Bogdan Bogdanović.The memorial complex was revitalized from 2007 until 2008.. Mound of the Unbeaten (Macedonian: Могила на непобедените) is a World War II memorial in the Park of the Revolution, Prilep, Republic of Macedonia. The monument and memorial complex were built in 1961 in honor to the martyrs and fallen fighters of the People's Liberation Struggle in Macedonia. Author of the memorial complex is Serbian architect Bogdan Bogdanović. The complex consists of memorial Urns and the common graves of fallen soldiers. Urns are constructed from marble, and reminiscent of the antique urns. Biggest urn in complex has the symbol of the eternal flame at the top, which is symbol of Macedonian people's struggle for freedom. In the second part of the complex is the crypt which houses the remains of 462 fallen partisan fighters from Prilep and the neighboring places . Their names are inscribed on the marble slabs. The memorial complex was revitalized from 2007 until 2008.. 
The Flight into Egypt. Author Name: Claude Lorrain. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Flight into Egypt is a 1635 oil painting by French artist Claude Lorrain, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It depicts the Flight into Egypt, when the Holy Family fled to Egypt to escape Herod's persecution.. The Flight into Egypt is a 1635 oil painting by French artist Claude Lorrain, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It depicts the Flight into Egypt, when the Holy Family fled to Egypt to escape Herod's persecution.. 
The Night Watch. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Militia Company of District II under the Command of Captain Frans Banninck Cocq, also known as The Shooting Company of Frans Banning Cocq and Willem van Ruytenburch, but commonly referred to as The Night Watch (Dutch: De Nachtwacht), is a 1642 painting by Rembrandt van Rijn. It is in the collection of the Amsterdam Museum but is prominently displayed in the Rijksmuseum as the best known painting in its collection. The Night Watch is one of the most famous Dutch Golden Age paintings and is window 16 in the Canon of Amsterdam.. Militia Company of District II under the Command of Captain Frans Banninck Cocq, also known as The Shooting Company of Frans Banning Cocq and Willem van Ruytenburch, but commonly referred to as The Night Watch (Dutch: De Nachtwacht), is a 1642 painting by Rembrandt van Rijn. It is in the collection of the Amsterdam Museum but is prominently displayed in the Rijksmuseum as the best known painting in its collection. The Night Watch is one of the most famous Dutch Golden Age paintings and is window 16 in the Canon of Amsterdam.. 
Isabella. Author Name: Sir John Everett Millais, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pre-Raphaelite_Brotherhood. . Isabella (1849), also known as Lorenzo and Isabella, is a painting by John Everett Millais, which was his first work in the Pre-Raphaelite style, created shortly after the formation of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood in the previous year. It was first exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1849, and is now in the collection of the Walker Art Gallery in Liverpool.. Isabella (1849), also known as Lorenzo and Isabella, is a painting by John Everett Millais, which was his first work in the Pre-Raphaelite style, created shortly after the formation of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood in the previous year. It was first exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1849, and is now in the collection of the Walker Art Gallery in Liverpool.. 
Parisian Women in Algerian Costume. Author Name: Pierre-Auguste Renoir. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Parisian Women in Algerian Costume (The Harem), sometimes known as Interior of a Harem in Montmartre (Parisian Women Dressed in Algerian costumes), is a painting by Pierre-Auguste Renoir, completed 1872, which Renoir created in homage to Eugène Delacroix's Women of Algiers in their Apartment (1834, Louvre). It was rejected for entry to the 1872 Paris Salon, disliked by the artist and eventually sold for a small sum as part of a larger lot. It is now in the National Museum of Western Art, Tokyo.. Parisian Women in Algerian Costume (The Harem), sometimes known as Interior of a Harem in Montmartre (Parisian Women Dressed in Algerian costumes), is a painting by Pierre-Auguste Renoir, completed 1872, which Renoir created in homage to Eugène Delacroix's Women of Algiers in their Apartment (1834, Louvre). It was rejected for entry to the 1872 Paris Salon, disliked by the artist and eventually sold for a small sum as part of a larger lot. It is now in the National Museum of Western Art, Tokyo.. 
The Voyage of Life: Childhood. Author Name: Thomas Cole. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Hudson_River_School. . The Voyage of Life, painted by Thomas Cole in 1842, is a series of paintings that represent an allegory of the four stages of human life: childhood, youth, manhood, and old age. The paintings follow a voyager who travels in a boat on a river through the mid-19th-century American wilderness. In each painting, accompanied by a guardian angel, the voyager rides the boat on the River of Life. The landscape, corresponding to the seasons of the year, plays a major role in telling the story. In each picture, the boat's direction of travel is reversed from the previous picture. In childhood, the infant glides from a dark cave into a rich, green landscape. As a youth, the boy takes control of the boat and aims for a shining castle in the sky. In manhood, the adult relies on prayer and religious fai. The Voyage of Life, painted by Thomas Cole in 1842, is a series of paintings that represent an allegory of the four stages of human life: childhood, youth, manhood, and old age. The paintings follow a voyager who travels in a boat on a river through the mid-19th-century American wilderness. In each painting, accompanied by a guardian angel, the voyager rides the boat on the River of Life. The landscape, corresponding to the seasons of the year, plays a major role in telling the story. In each picture, the boat's direction of travel is reversed from the previous picture. In childhood, the infant glides from a dark cave into a rich, green landscape. As a youth, the boy takes control of the boat and aims for a shining castle in the sky. In manhood, the adult relies on prayer and religious faith to sustain him through rough waters and a threatening landscape. Finally, the man becomes old and the angel guides him to heaven across the waters of eternity.. 
The Great Executioner. Author Name: Prince Rupert. . . The Great Executioner is a mezzotint by the soldier and amateur artist Prince Rupert of the Rhine (1619-1682), finished in 1658.The subject of the picture is the execution of John the Baptist, after Jusepe de Ribera's painting. Rupert had become interested in mezzotint design during his time in Europe during the Interregnum following the English civil war, and there is an extensive debate over Rupert's role in the invention of the technique itself. Rupert's mezzotint works were popularised by the print collector John Evelyn after the Restoration, and became much admired across Europe. The Great Executioner is generally considered to be one of Rupert's finest works; produced in 1658, it is still regarded by critics as containing 'brilliance and energy', 'superb', 'one of the greatest mezzot. The Great Executioner is a mezzotint by the soldier and amateur artist Prince Rupert of the Rhine (1619-1682), finished in 1658. The subject of the picture is the execution of John the Baptist, after Jusepe de Ribera's painting. Rupert had become interested in mezzotint design during his time in Europe during the Interregnum following the English civil war, and there is an extensive debate over Rupert's role in the invention of the technique itself. Rupert's mezzotint works were popularised by the print collector John Evelyn after the Restoration, and became much admired across Europe. The Great Executioner is generally considered to be one of Rupert's finest works; produced in 1658, it is still regarded by critics as containing 'brilliance and energy', 'superb', 'one of the greatest mezzotints', and 'among the finest [mezzotints] ever produced'. Rupert's name can be seen signed along the executioner's blade.. 
Portrait of Emperor Maximilian I. Author Name: Albrecht Dürer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Portrait of Emperor Maximilian I is an oil painting by Albrecht Dürer, dating to 1519 and now at the Kunsthistorisches Museum of Vienna, Austria. It portrays the emperor Maximilian I.. The Portrait of Emperor Maximilian I is an oil painting by Albrecht Dürer, dating to 1519 and now at the Kunsthistorisches Museum of Vienna, Austria. It portrays the emperor Maximilian I.. 
Rabboni. Author Name: Gutzon Borglum. . . Rabboni is a public artwork by American artist Gutzon Borglum, located Rock Creek Cemetery in Washington, D.C., United States. "Rabboni" was surveyed as part of the Smithsonian Save Outdoor Sculpture! survey in 1993. It is a tribute to Charles Matthews Ffoulke, prominent Washington banker and tapestry collector.. Rabboni is a public artwork by American artist Gutzon Borglum, located Rock Creek Cemetery in Washington, D.C., United States. "Rabboni" was surveyed as part of the Smithsonian Save Outdoor Sculpture! survey in 1993. It is a tribute to Charles Matthews Ffoulke, prominent Washington banker and tapestry collector.. 
Wheatstacks. Author Name: Claude Monet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Haystacks is a title of a series of impressionist paintings by Claude Monet. The primary subjects of all of the paintings in the series are stacks of hay in the field after the harvest season. The title refers primarily to a twenty-five canvas series (Wildenstein Index Number 1266-1290) begun in the end of summer of 1890 and continued through the following spring, using that year's harvest. Some use a broader definition of the title to refer to other paintings by Monet with this same theme. The series is known for its thematic use of repetition to show differences in perception of light across various times of day, seasons, and types of weather. The subjects were painted in fields near Monet's home in Giverny, France.. Haystacks is a title of a series of impressionist paintings by Claude Monet. The primary subjects of all of the paintings in the series are stacks of hay in the field after the harvest season. The title refers primarily to a twenty-five canvas series (Wildenstein Index Number 1266-1290) begun in the end of summer of 1890 and continued through the following spring, using that year's harvest. Some use a broader definition of the title to refer to other paintings by Monet with this same theme. The series is known for its thematic use of repetition to show differences in perception of light across various times of day, seasons, and types of weather. The subjects were painted in fields near Monet's home in Giverny, France. The series is among Monet's most notable works. Although the largest collections of Monet's work is held in Paris at the Musée d'Orsay and Musée Marmottan Monet, other notable Monet collections are in the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, the Metropolitan Museum and Museum of Modern Art in New York, and at the National Museum of Western Art in Tokyo. Six of the twenty-five haystacks pieces in this series are currently housed at the Art Institute of Chicago. Other museums that hold parts of this series in their collection include: the Getty Center in Los Angeles, the Hill-Stead Museum in Farmington, Connecticut (which also has one of five from the earlier 1888-9 harvest), the National Gallery of Scotland, the Minneapolis Institute of Arts, Kunsthaus Zürich, and the Shelburne Museum, Vermont. Several private collections also hold Haystack paintings.. 
The Prophet Daniel. Author Name: Michelangelo. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Prophet Daniel is one of the seven Old Testament prophet's painted by the Italian High Renaissance master Michelangelo (c. 1542–1545) on the Sistine Chapel ceiling. The Sistine Chapel is in Vatican Palace, in the Vatican City.. The Prophet Daniel is one of the seven Old Testament prophet's painted by the Italian High Renaissance master Michelangelo (c. 1542–1545) on the Sistine Chapel ceiling. The Sistine Chapel is in Vatican Palace, in the Vatican City. This particular fresco figure is painted second on the right from the side of the High Altar. It is worth noting that – unlike many other paintings of the period – this portrayal makes no reference to the most famous event from Daniel's life, that is his time in the den of the lions. Instead, Michelangelo shows Daniel reading a great book, which is held up by a muscular figure from beneath it.. 
Portrait of Adele Besson. Author Name: Pierre-Auguste Renoir. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Portrait of Adèle Besson is an oil painting in the Post-Impressionist style made by Auguste Renoir in 1918, representing the wife of George Besson.The couple gave a large bequest to the Museum of Fine Arts in Besançon (France). Their collection consisted of works of contemporary art (early 20th century). The installation of the collection at the Museum caused the expansion of the museum building, including the construction of the central staircase by Louis Miquel (student of Le Corbusier). This picture is part of their bequest.. The Portrait of Adèle Besson is an oil painting in the Post-Impressionist style made by Auguste Renoir in 1918, representing the wife of George Besson. The couple gave a large bequest to the Museum of Fine Arts in Besançon (France). Their collection consisted of works of contemporary art (early 20th century). The installation of the collection at the Museum caused the expansion of the museum building, including the construction of the central staircase by Louis Miquel (student of Le Corbusier). This picture is part of their bequest.. 
Portrait of Princess. Author Name: Pisanello. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/International_Gothic. . Portrait of Princess is a tempera painting on panel attributed to the Italian Late-Gothic master Pisanello. It was probably executed between 1435 and 1449 and is also known as Portrait of a Princess of the House of Este. It is firmly attributed to Pisanello on stylistic grounds and because he stayed in Ferrara in the period, where he also finished a portrait and a celebrative medal of Marquis Leonello d'Este.The princess is shown in profile against a background of numerous butterflies and columbine flowers. The butterfly near the princess' brow is a symbol of the soul.. Portrait of Princess is a tempera painting on panel attributed to the Italian Late-Gothic master Pisanello. It was probably executed between 1435 and 1449 and is also known as Portrait of a Princess of the House of Este. It is firmly attributed to Pisanello on stylistic grounds and because he stayed in Ferrara in the period, where he also finished a portrait and a celebrative medal of Marquis Leonello d'Este. The princess is shown in profile against a background of numerous butterflies and columbine flowers. The butterfly near the princess' brow is a symbol of the soul. The painting is currently housed and exhibited in the Musée du Louvre in Paris, France.. 
Blessed Soul. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Blessed Soul (Italian: Anima Beata) is a bust by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Executed around 1619, it is a pendant piece to the Damned Soul. It is reckoned that they were both commissioned by Cardinal Montoya, of whom Bernini also did a portrait bust. Their original location was sacristy of the church of San Giacomo degli Spagnuoli, but they were then moved in the late 19th century, and then to the Spanish Embassy to the Holy See in Piazza di Spagna.. The Blessed Soul (Italian: Anima Beata) is a bust by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Executed around 1619, it is a pendant piece to the Damned Soul. It is reckoned that they were both commissioned by Cardinal Montoya, of whom Bernini also did a portrait bust. Their original location was sacristy of the church of San Giacomo degli Spagnuoli, but they were then moved in the late 19th century, and then to the Spanish Embassy to the Holy See in Piazza di Spagna.. 
Pallas and the Centaur. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Pallas and the Centaur is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli, c. 1482. It is housed in the Uffizi of Florence. The painting was discovered in 1895 in one of the ante-rooms of the Palazzo Pitti by William Blundell Spence. It has been proposed as the companion piece to Primavera and interpreted as an allegory on the peace after the Pazzi wars.. Pallas and the Centaur is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli, c. 1482. It is housed in the Uffizi of Florence. The painting was discovered in 1895 in one of the ante-rooms of the Palazzo Pitti by William Blundell Spence. It has been proposed as the companion piece to Primavera and interpreted as an allegory on the peace after the Pazzi wars.. 
Madonna del Ceppo. Author Name: Fra' Filippo Lippi, O.Carm.. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Madonna del Ceppo is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Filippo Lippi, commissioned to him between 1452 and 1453. It is housed in the Civic Museum of Prato, Italy (though exposed in the local Museum of Wall Painting, in the Palazzo degli Alberti). The name derives from the fact it was located over a pit of the garden of Pia Casa dei Ceppi in Palazzo Datini, in Prato.. The Madonna del Ceppo is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Filippo Lippi, commissioned to him between 1452 and 1453. It is housed in the Civic Museum of Prato, Italy (though exposed in the local Museum of Wall Painting, in the Palazzo degli Alberti). The name derives from the fact it was located over a pit of the garden of Pia Casa dei Ceppi in Palazzo Datini, in Prato. In the centre, the Madonna and Child are flanked by Saints Stephen and John the Baptist; below, Francesco Datini presents to the Virgin the four Buonomini ("Honourable Men") of the Ceppo: Andrea di Giovanni Bertelli, Filippo Manassei, Pietro Pugliesi and Jacopo degli Obizzi.. 
Allegory. Author Name: Filippino Lippi. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . Allegory is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Filippino Lippi, executed around 1498. It is now housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence.The work had been variously assigned, from Leonardo da Vinci to an unknown 15th century painter.. Allegory is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Filippino Lippi, executed around 1498. It is now housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence. The work had been variously assigned, from Leonardo da Vinci to an unknown 15th century painter.. 
Resurrection of Christ. Author Name: Bermejo, Bartolome. . . Resurrection is a painting by Bartolomé Bermejo conserved at the National Art Museum of Catalonia.. Resurrection is a painting by Bartolomé Bermejo conserved at the National Art Museum of Catalonia.. 
Signal of Peace. Author Name: Cyrus Edwin Dallin. . . A Signal of Peace is a bronze equestrian sculpture by Cyrus Edwin Dallin, a part of a four-piece series called The Epic of the Indian.It is located in Lincoln Park, Chicago.. A Signal of Peace is a bronze equestrian sculpture by Cyrus Edwin Dallin, a part of a four-piece series called The Epic of the Indian.It is located in Lincoln Park, Chicago.. 
Funeral of St. Jerome. Author Name: Fra' Filippo Lippi, O.Carm.. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Funel of St. Jerome is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Filippo Lippi. It is housed in the Museo dell'Opera del Duomo next to the Cathedral of Prato, central Italy.. The Funel of St. Jerome is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Filippo Lippi. It is housed in the Museo dell'Opera del Duomo next to the Cathedral of Prato, central Italy.. 
Le Cirque. Author Name: Georges Seurat. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neo-impressionism. . The Circus (French: Le Cirque) is an oil on canvas painting by Georges Seurat. It was his last painting, made in a Neo-Impressionist style in 1890-91, and remained unfinished at his death in March 1891. The painting is located at the Musée d'Orsay in Paris.. The Circus (French: Le Cirque) is an oil on canvas painting by Georges Seurat. It was his last painting, made in a Neo-Impressionist style in 1890-91, and remained unfinished at his death in March 1891. The painting is located at the Musée d'Orsay in Paris.. 
La Nymphe surprise. Author Name: Édouard Manet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . La Nymphe surprise, or Nymph Surprised, is a painting by the French impressionist painter Édouard Manet, created in 1861. The model was Suzanne, a pianist and his secret beloved for years, whom he married two years later. The painting is a key work in Manet's production, marking the beginning of a new period in his artistic career and generally in the history of modernism in French painting. It is in National Museum of Fine Arts in Buenos Aires and it is considered as one of the collection's highlights. Manet had special feelings for this painting, and La Nymphe surprise remained in the artist's possession his entire life, and there is evidence that points to the fact that, apart from the emotional significance it represented for the artist, Manet considered this painting as one of his mos. La Nymphe surprise, or Nymph Surprised, is a painting by the French impressionist painter Édouard Manet, created in 1861. The model was Suzanne, a pianist and his secret beloved for years, whom he married two years later. The painting is a key work in Manet's production, marking the beginning of a new period in his artistic career and generally in the history of modernism in French painting. It is in National Museum of Fine Arts in Buenos Aires and it is considered as one of the collection's highlights. Manet had special feelings for this painting, and La Nymphe surprise remained in the artist's possession his entire life, and there is evidence that points to the fact that, apart from the emotional significance it represented for the artist, Manet considered this painting as one of his most important works.. 
Susanna and the Elders. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Susanna and the Elders is a 1647 painting by Rembrandt, now in the Gemaldegalerie in Berlin. It is an oil on panel painting by the Dutch painter Rembrandt and represents the story of Susanna from the Bible. The scene shows the moment when Susanna is surprised at the moment she enters her bath.Other "Susanna" paintings by Rembrandt or his school are:. Susanna and the Elders is a 1647 painting by Rembrandt, now in the Gemaldegalerie in Berlin. It is an oil on panel painting by the Dutch painter Rembrandt and represents the story of Susanna from the Bible. The scene shows the moment when Susanna is surprised at the moment she enters her bath. This painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1915, who wrote; "55. SUSANNA AT THE BATH. Sm. 41.; Bode 255 ; Dut. 36; Wb. 21 ; B.-HdG. 322. Susanna, turning to the left, is about to descend the stone steps from the right into the water. She is surprised by the two Elders. One of them tries with his left hand to tear away her bathing-towel, and makes a threatening gesture with his clenched right fist. The more aged of the two men, behind to the right, hobbles forward out of the shadow. Susanna, shivering, stands with one foot in the water ; with her right hand she presses the towel firmly against her body with a gesture of alarm, and holds her left arm before her bosom. She looks out of the picture with an expression of dread and entreaty. On the stone bench to the right lies her rich gown of brilliant red. To the left, beyond the basin, are the terraces, arcades, and towers of the royal palace of Babylon. On the bank is a peacock. A couple are walking amid the bushes. Small full-length figures. Signed on the right at foot on the edge of a step, " Rembrandt f. 1647 " ; oak panel, 30 inches by 36 inches. There are painted studies for the Susanna in the Louvre (58) and in the collection of Leon Bonnat, Paris (60) ; for the elder in front in the Bischoffsheim collection, Paris (59), and in the Von Nemes collection, Budapest (56). A finished drawing is in the Landesgalerie, Budapest, reproduced in Handzeichnungen der Albertlna, 286. A study in red chalk is in the Berlin Print-room, reproduced by Lippmann and Hofstede de Groot, 20. A chalk study for the Susanna is also in the Berlin Print-room, reproduced by Lippmann, 197. Several pen-and-ink studies for the elder in front were in the collection of J. P. Heseltine (HdG. 986 and 1021). Engraved in mezzotint by R. Earlom, 1769. Mentioned by Bode, pp. 485, 591 ; by Dutuit, p. 25 ; by Michel, pp. 323, 551 [247, 249-50, 436]. For the relation of this and other pictures of "Susanna" by Rembrandt to a picture by Lastman, see Valentiner in the Zeitschrift für bildende Kunst, November 1907, and Kurt Freise, P. Lastman, pp. 249, etc. Exhibited at the Royal Academy Winter Exhibition, London, 1883, No. 236. Possibly in the collection of Adriaen Banck, Amsterdam, who in 1647 bought a " Susanna " from Rembrandt for 500 florins and sold it to Adriaen Maen of Schiedam in 1660 for 560 florins. See Hofstede de Groot, Urkunden über Rembrandt, Nos. 207, 732. Sales. Baron Schonborn, Amsterdam, April 16, 1738 (Hoct, i. 511), No. 66 but No. 65 of the original catalogue (700 florins). J. A. J. Aved, Paris, November 24, 1766 (2760 francs). In the collection of Edmund Burke, London, 1769. Sale. Sir Joshua Reynolds, London, March 11, 1795 (£156, according to Sm.). In the collection of Sir E. Lechmere, Bart., The Rhydd, till 1883. In the possession of the Paris dealer C. Sedelmeyer, " Catalogue of 300 Paintings," No. 135 ; sold in 1883 to Berlin. In the Kaiser Friedrich Museum, Berlin, 1911 catalogue, No. 828E.". Other "Susanna" paintings by Rembrandt or his school are:. 
The Millinery Shop. Author Name: Edgar Degas. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . The Millinery Shop (1879/86) is a painting by French artist Edgar Degas. It depicts a woman siting at a display table in a millinery shop, appearing to closely examine or work on a lady's hat, which she holds in her hands. The view of the scene is at an angle from above. Although Degas created several paintings concerning milliners, this painting is his "largest and only 'museum scale work' on this subject".. The Millinery Shop (1879/86) is a painting by French artist Edgar Degas. It depicts a woman siting at a display table in a millinery shop, appearing to closely examine or work on a lady's hat, which she holds in her hands. The view of the scene is at an angle from above. Although Degas created several paintings concerning milliners, this painting is his "largest and only 'museum scale work' on this subject".. 
The Blind Girl. Author Name: Sir John Everett Millais, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pre-Raphaelite_Brotherhood. . The Blind Girl (1856) is a painting by John Everett Millais which depicts two itinerant beggars, presumed to be sisters, one of whom is a blind musician, her concertina on her lap. They are resting by the roadside after a rainstorm, before travelling to the town of Winchelsea, visible in the background.When the painting was first exhibited in 1856 it was pointed out to Millais that in double rainbows the inner rainbow inverts the order of the colours. Millais had originally painted the colours in the same order in both rainbows. He altered it for scientific accuracy.. The Blind Girl (1856) is a painting by John Everett Millais which depicts two itinerant beggars, presumed to be sisters, one of whom is a blind musician, her concertina on her lap. They are resting by the roadside after a rainstorm, before travelling to the town of Winchelsea, visible in the background. The painting has been interpreted as an allegory of the senses, contrasting the experiences of the blind and sighted sisters. The former feels the warmth of the sun on her face, and fondles a leaf of grass, while the latter shields her eyes from the sun or rain and looks at the unusual spectacle of a double rainbow that has just appeared. Some critics have interpreted the rainbow in Biblical terms, as the sign of God's covenant described in Genesis 9:16. When the painting was first exhibited in 1856 it was pointed out to Millais that in double rainbows the inner rainbow inverts the order of the colours. Millais had originally painted the colours in the same order in both rainbows. He altered it for scientific accuracy. A tortoiseshell butterfly rests on the blind girl's shawl, implying that she is holding herself extremely still. The sheet around her neck is captioned "Pity the Blind".. 
La Lecture. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . La Lecture (or Reading) is a painting by Spanish artist Pablo Picasso completed in January 1932. The oil painting depicts Picasso's mistress and muse, Marie-Thérèse Walter, asleep with a book upon her lap. The painting led to the breakup of Picasso's marriage to Olga Khokhlova after she saw it at a retrospective exhibition and realised that the facial features were not her own. The painting went to auction in 1989 and in 1996, where it failed to sell. In January 2011, it was announced that La Lecture would be going to auction on 8 February. The painting, which had not been seen in Europe since the exhibition, was then displayed at Sotheby's in Paris.. La Lecture (or Reading) is a painting by Spanish artist Pablo Picasso completed in January 1932. The oil painting depicts Picasso's mistress and muse, Marie-Thérèse Walter, asleep with a book upon her lap. The painting led to the breakup of Picasso's marriage to Olga Khokhlova after she saw it at a retrospective exhibition and realised that the facial features were not her own. The painting went to auction in 1989 and in 1996, where it failed to sell. In January 2011, it was announced that La Lecture would be going to auction on 8 February. The painting, which had not been seen in Europe since the exhibition, was then displayed at Sotheby's in Paris.. 
Portrait of Clarissa Strozzi. Author Name: Titian. . . Portrait of Clarissa Strozzi is a portrait by the Italian painter Titian from 1542 belonging to the Gemäldegalerie in Berlin.The painting depicts a girl from the old Florentine family of Strozzi. The girl seems slightly frightened and holds onto her little Phalene dog. By some it is considered an example of one of the most beautiful child portraits in the world thanks to colouring and specifically the combination of colours carmine red, blue and golden yellow. This canvas is considered an inspiration for similar paintings by Anthony van Dyck.. Portrait of Clarissa Strozzi is a portrait by the Italian painter Titian from 1542 belonging to the Gemäldegalerie in Berlin. The painting depicts a girl from the old Florentine family of Strozzi. The girl seems slightly frightened and holds onto her little Phalene dog. By some it is considered an example of one of the most beautiful child portraits in the world thanks to colouring and specifically the combination of colours carmine red, blue and golden yellow. This canvas is considered an inspiration for similar paintings by Anthony van Dyck.. 
Souvenir de Mortefontaine. Author Name: Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . Souvenir de Mortefontaine (Recollection of Mortefontaine) is an 1864 oil-on-canvas painting by French artist Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot. It is a scene of tranquillity: a woman and children quietly enjoying themselves by a glass-flat, tree-flanked lake.Souvenir de Mortefontaine was purchased in 1864 for the French state directly from Corot through Napoleon III's Civil List, and after hanging at Fontainebleau for 25 years it was transferred to the Louvre in 1889.. Souvenir de Mortefontaine (Recollection of Mortefontaine) is an 1864 oil-on-canvas painting by French artist Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot. It is a scene of tranquillity: a woman and children quietly enjoying themselves by a glass-flat, tree-flanked lake. Generally acknowledged as one of his masterpieces, it is among the most successful of Corot's later, more poetic works. The painting captures an idealized scene while still drawing from the real world. Corot's early painting showed Realist leanings, but as his career progressed he began to combine more Romantic elements, and his works are often viewed as a bridge between Realism and the evolving Impressionist movement. Souvenir de Mortefontaine verges on the Impressionistic, with the lake and landscape captured by broad rather than detailed strokes and Corot's careful attention to the play of light within the scene, though the brushwork is precise and the painting has a more muted palette than the bright colours favoured by the Impressionists. The indistinct features are reminiscent of the blurry details of early landscape photography; Corot had a large collection of these photographs and may have been attempting to recreate the effect in paint. Mortefontaine is a small village in the Oise département in northern France. Corot made frequent visits to the area in the 1850s to study the effects of light and reflection on water. In Souvenir de Mortefontaine Corot was not producing a scene from life, but (as the title suggests) his recollections of his visits and the play of light on the ponds in the village. Corot produced a second similar painting, The Boatman of Mortefontaine (1865–70), which shows the same lake and trees from the same perspective. Changes in the features of the landscape in The Boatman from those depicted in Souvenir hint at the paintings being generalised impressions rather than details captured from life. Souvenir de Mortefontaine was purchased in 1864 for the French state directly from Corot through Napoleon III's Civil List, and after hanging at Fontainebleau for 25 years it was transferred to the Louvre in 1889.. 
The Ray of Light. Author Name: Jacob van Ruisdael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dutch_Golden_Age_painting. . The Ray of Light, also known as Le Coup de Soleil, (c. 1665) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Louvre Museum.This painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1911, who wrote; "664. THE BURST OF SUNSHINE (" Le Coup de Soleil ").Engraved by Laurent in the Musée Français. In the collection of King Louis XVI.In the Louvre, Paris, 1902 catalogue, No. 2560; it was valued by the experts in 1816 (at 15,000 francs)".Influences:. The Ray of Light, also known as Le Coup de Soleil, (c. 1665) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch painter Jacob van Ruisdael.It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Louvre Museum. This painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1911, who wrote; "664. THE BURST OF SUNSHINE (" Le Coup de Soleil "). Sm. 11. A road leads diagonally across the picture from the left foreground to the right distance. On the left a horseman in a red cloak rides forward ; a beggar asks him for alms. A dog runs in front. In the centre the road crosses a stone bridge of four arches over a river to a ruined square tower with an archway. The broad river flows to the right, where three persons bathe near rocks in mid stream. On the farther bank are hills, with a ruined castle half-way up the slope. To the right is a wind-mill; farther back is a village with a church tower. A ray of sunlight, breaking through thick clouds, falls on a field in the left middle distance. The figures, though ascribed in the catalogue to Ph. Wouwerman, are by Ruisdael himself. The picture is strongly influenced by Rembrandt's landscapes, especially in composition. [Cf. 788.] Signed with the monogram on the left ; canvas, 33 inches by 39 inches. Engraved by Laurent in the Musée Français. In the collection of King Louis XVI. In the Louvre, Paris, 1902 catalogue, No. 2560; it was valued by the experts in 1816 (at 15,000 francs)". Influences:. 
Fulcrum. Author Name: Richard Serra. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Process_art. . Fulcrum is a large sculpture by American artist Richard Serra installed in 1987 near the western entrance to Liverpool Street station, London, as part of the Broadgate development. The sculpture consists of five pieces of Cor-Ten steel, and is approximately 55 feet (17 m) tall. Deyan Sudjic, director of the Design Museum, has called it one of London's "design icons".. Fulcrum is a large sculpture by American artist Richard Serra installed in 1987 near the western entrance to Liverpool Street station, London, as part of the Broadgate development. The sculpture consists of five pieces of Cor-Ten steel, and is approximately 55 feet (17 m) tall. Deyan Sudjic, director of the Design Museum, has called it one of London's "design icons".. 
Red Vineyards near Arles. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . The Red Vineyards near Arles is an oil painting by the Dutch painter Vincent van Gogh, executed on a privately primed Toile de 30 piece of burlap in early November 1888. It supposedly is the only piece sold by the artist while he was alive.. The Red Vineyards near Arles is an oil painting by the Dutch painter Vincent van Gogh, executed on a privately primed Toile de 30 piece of burlap in early November 1888. It supposedly is the only piece sold by the artist while he was alive.. 
Office in a Small City. Author Name: Edward Hopper. . . Office in a Small City is a 1953 painting by the American realist painter Edward Hopper. It depicts a man sitting in a corner office surveying the landscape outdoors. The style is reminiscent of many of Hopper's works in that it depicts loneliness and beauty in a uniquely stark yet pleasing fashion. It is owned by the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City.. Office in a Small City is a 1953 painting by the American realist painter Edward Hopper. It depicts a man sitting in a corner office surveying the landscape outdoors. The style is reminiscent of many of Hopper's works in that it depicts loneliness and beauty in a uniquely stark yet pleasing fashion. It is owned by the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City.. 
The Basket of Apples. Author Name: Paul Cézanne. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . The Basket of Apples is a still life oil painting by French artist Paul Cézanne. It belongs to the Helen Birch Bartlett Memorial Collection of the Art Institute of Chicago.The piece is often noted for its disjointed perspective. It has been described as a balanced composition due to its unbalanced parts; the tilted bottle, the incline of the basket, and the foreshortened lines of the cookies mesh with the lines of the tablecloth. Additionally, the right side of the tabletop is not in the same plane as the left side, as if the image simultaneously reflects two viewpoints.. The Basket of Apples is a still life oil painting by French artist Paul Cézanne. It belongs to the Helen Birch Bartlett Memorial Collection of the Art Institute of Chicago. The piece is often noted for its disjointed perspective. It has been described as a balanced composition due to its unbalanced parts; the tilted bottle, the incline of the basket, and the foreshortened lines of the cookies mesh with the lines of the tablecloth. Additionally, the right side of the tabletop is not in the same plane as the left side, as if the image simultaneously reflects two viewpoints. Paintings such as this helped form a bridge between Impressionism and Cubism.. 
Headbutt. Author Name: Abdessemed, Adel. . . Headbutt (French: Coup de tête) is a sculpture by the French artist Adel Abdessemed. It is 5 m (16.4 ft) tall and made from bronze. It was unveiled on 26 September 2012 at the Centre Pompidou in Paris, France.. Headbutt (French: Coup de tête) is a sculpture by the French artist Adel Abdessemed. It is 5 m (16.4 ft) tall and made from bronze. It was unveiled on 26 September 2012 at the Centre Pompidou in Paris, France.. 
The Angelus. Author Name: Jean-François Millet. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realism_(arts). . The Angelus (L'Angelus) is an oil painting by French painter Jean-François Millet, completed in 1859.The painting depicts two peasants bowing in a field over a basket of potatoes to say a prayer, the Angelus, that together with the ringing of the bell from the church on the horizon marks the end of a day's work.Millet was commissioned by the American would-be painter and art collector Thomas Gold Appleton, who never came to collect it. The painting is famous today for driving the prices for artworks of the Barbizon school up to record amounts in the late 19th century.. The Angelus (L'Angelus) is an oil painting by French painter Jean-François Millet, completed in 1859. The painting depicts two peasants bowing in a field over a basket of potatoes to say a prayer, the Angelus, that together with the ringing of the bell from the church on the horizon marks the end of a day's work. Millet was commissioned by the American would-be painter and art collector Thomas Gold Appleton, who never came to collect it. The painting is famous today for driving the prices for artworks of the Barbizon school up to record amounts in the late 19th century.. 
The Story of Virginia. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Story of Virginia (Italian, Storie di Virginia), is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli. It is a tempera on panel and measures 86 cm tall and 165 cm wide. It is currently held by the Accademia Carrara in Bergamo, Italy.It is one of the last works that Botticelli made exemplifying virtue, like The Story of Lucretia.The painting has as a fundamental theme of violated honor and matrimonial fidelity. The combination of several scenes in a single image was common in the art of the early Renaissance. These are read from left to right:. The Story of Virginia (Italian, Storie di Virginia), is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli. It is a tempera on panel and measures 86 cm tall and 165 cm wide. It is currently held by the Accademia Carrara in Bergamo, Italy. It is one of the last works that Botticelli made exemplifying virtue, like The Story of Lucretia. The painting has as a fundamental theme of violated honor and matrimonial fidelity. The combination of several scenes in a single image was common in the art of the early Renaissance. These are read from left to right: This story is developed within a setting of classical architecture, in which the figures are agitated, painted with vibrant colors.. 
The Young Lovers. Author Name: Ehrlich, Georg. . . The Young Lovers is an outdoor sculpture by Georg Ehrlich, installed at Festival Gardens in London, United Kingdom. It was installed in the garden in 1973.. The Young Lovers is an outdoor sculpture by Georg Ehrlich, installed at Festival Gardens in London, United Kingdom. It was installed in the garden in 1973.. 
Mont Sainte-Victoire with Large Pine. Author Name: Paul Cézanne. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Mont Sainte-Victoire with Large Pine is a series of oil paintings by the French artist Paul Cézanne.. Mont Sainte-Victoire with Large Pine is a series of oil paintings by the French artist Paul Cézanne.. 
L'Arbre de Vie, Stoclet Frieze. Author Name: Gustav Klimt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Art_Nouveau. . The Tree of Life, Stoclet Frieze (French: L'Arbre de Vie, Stoclet Frieze) is a painting by an Austrian symbolist painter Gustav Klimt. It was completed in 1909 and is based on the Art Nouveau (Modern) style in a symbolic painting genre. The dimensions of the painting are 195 by 102 centimetres (77 by 40 in), and it is housed at the Museum of Applied Arts, Vienna, Austria.. The Tree of Life, Stoclet Frieze (French: L'Arbre de Vie, Stoclet Frieze) is a painting by an Austrian symbolist painter Gustav Klimt. It was completed in 1909 and is based on the Art Nouveau (Modern) style in a symbolic painting genre. The dimensions of the painting are 195 by 102 centimetres (77 by 40 in), and it is housed at the Museum of Applied Arts, Vienna, Austria. The painting is a study for a series of three mosaics created by Klimt for a 1905-1911 commissioned work at the Palais Stoclet in Brussels, Belgium.The mosaics were created in the artist's Late Works period, and depict swirling Trees of Life, a standing female figure and an embracing couple. The mosaics are spread across three walls of the Palais' dining room, along with two figural sections set opposite each other. The iconic painting later inspired the external facade of the "New Residence Hall" (also called the "Tree House"), a colorful 21-story student residence hall at Massachusetts College of Art and Design in Boston, Massachusetts.. 
Sorrow. Author Name: Vincent van Gogh. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Sorrow is a drawing by Vincent van Gogh produced in 1882. The work was created two years after Van Gogh had decided to become an artist. It depicts a 32-year-old pregnant woman, Clasina Maria Hoornik, familiarly known as Sien. Sorrow is widely acknowledged as a masterwork of draftsmanship, the culmination of a long and sometimes uncertain apprenticeship by Van Gogh in learning his craft. The drawing is part of the Garman Ryan Collection held at The New Art Gallery Walsall. Previously, it was in the private collection of artist Sally Ryan, who had the work hung in her permanent suite at the Dorchester Hotel in London.. Sorrow is a drawing by Vincent van Gogh produced in 1882. The work was created two years after Van Gogh had decided to become an artist. It depicts a 32-year-old pregnant woman, Clasina Maria Hoornik, familiarly known as Sien. Sorrow is widely acknowledged as a masterwork of draftsmanship, the culmination of a long and sometimes uncertain apprenticeship by Van Gogh in learning his craft. The drawing is part of the Garman Ryan Collection held at The New Art Gallery Walsall. Previously, it was in the private collection of artist Sally Ryan, who had the work hung in her permanent suite at the Dorchester Hotel in London. The drawing is one of a series using Sien Hoornik as model. It is mentioned in a number of letters by Van Gogh, and he appears to have thought highly of it, considering it an important work and describing the drawing as "the best figure I've drawn". In a letter from July 1882 Van Gogh states; I want to make drawings that touch some people. Sorrow is a small beginning [...] there is at least something directly from my own heart. The piece is numbered as F929a in the catalogue raisonné by Jacob Baart de la Faille.. 
Marriage à-la-mode: 6. The Lady's Death. Author Name: William  Hogarth. . . The Lady's Death is the sixth and final canvas in the series of satirical paintings known as Marriage à-la-mode painted by William Hogarth.The Countess has returned to her father's house after her husband’s murder. The moral drama is concluded with her having moved from dissipation and vice to misery and shame, and finally to terminating her existence by suicide after her lover is hanged at Tyburn for murdering her husband.. The Lady's Death is the sixth and final canvas in the series of satirical paintings known as Marriage à-la-mode painted by William Hogarth. The Countess has returned to her father's house after her husband’s murder. The moral drama is concluded with her having moved from dissipation and vice to misery and shame, and finally to terminating her existence by suicide after her lover is hanged at Tyburn for murdering her husband.. 
Zara Polyptych. Author Name: Vittore Carpaccio. . . The Zadar Polyptych is an oil-on-panel by Italian artist Vittore Carpaccio, painted around 1480-1490. It is now in the Museum of Sacre Art of the Zadar Cathedral, in southern Croatia.. The Zadar Polyptych is an oil-on-panel by Italian artist Vittore Carpaccio, painted around 1480-1490. It is now in the Museum of Sacre Art of the Zadar Cathedral, in southern Croatia.. 
A Distinguished Member of the Humane Society. Author Name: Sir Edwin Henry Landseer. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Animalier. . A Distinguished Member of the Humane Society is an 1831 oil on canvas work by English painter Sir Edwin Henry Landseer. The original was damaged in a flood whilst on loan to the Tate Gallery in 1928, and was returned to public view for the first time in 50 years after it was restored in 2009.. A Distinguished Member of the Humane Society is an 1831 oil on canvas work by English painter Sir Edwin Henry Landseer. The original was damaged in a flood whilst on loan to the Tate Gallery in 1928, and was returned to public view for the first time in 50 years after it was restored in 2009.. 
Philip IV in Brown and Silver. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Portrait of Philip IV or Philip IV in Brown and Silver is a portrait of Philip IV of Spain painted by Diego Velázquez. It is sometimes known as Silver Philip and is now in the National Gallery in London. It was the main portrait of Philip painted by Velázquez in the 1630s, used as the model for many workshop versions.. The Portrait of Philip IV or Philip IV in Brown and Silver is a portrait of Philip IV of Spain painted by Diego Velázquez. It is sometimes known as Silver Philip and is now in the National Gallery in London. It was the main portrait of Philip painted by Velázquez in the 1630s, used as the model for many workshop versions. The date of the work is not certain – the National Gallery website gives 1631/32, whilst Carrassat gives 1635 – but it was definitely the first portrait the artist produced after his first trip to Italy, in that it adopts the softer and more colourful palette of the Venetian school. There is some evidence that the portrait may have taken a number of years to complete, accounting for the uncertainty. Life size, it is unlike most portraits of Philip IV, in that it does not show him in his usual wholly black costume. Instead it shows him in a brown and silver embroidered costume (thus giving the portrait its name), painted with small rapid strokes, and wearing the insignia of the Order of the Golden Fleece on a golden chain. There are several pentimenti that fine tune the composition. The signature is on the letter Philip holds, a fictive petition from the painter to him. This is a sign of the importance Velázquez attached to the work, as he only signed a few of his paintings.. 
History Painting. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . History Painting is an early painting by Rembrandt, dating to 1626 and showing an allegory of history painting. Owned by the Instituut Collectie Nederland, it is on permanent loan to the Stedelijk Museum De Lakenhal in Leiden.. History Painting is an early painting by Rembrandt, dating to 1626 and showing an allegory of history painting. Owned by the Instituut Collectie Nederland, it is on permanent loan to the Stedelijk Museum De Lakenhal in Leiden.. 
Greece on the ruins of Missolonghi. Author Name: Eugène Delacroix. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Romanticism. . Greece on the Ruins of Missolonghi (French: La Grèce sur les ruines de Missolonghi) is an 1826 oil painting by French painter Eugène Delacroix, and now preserved at the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Bordeaux. This painting was inspired by the Third Siege of Missolonghi by the Ottoman forces in 1826, during which many people of the city after the long-time siege (almost a year) decided to attempt a mass breakout (sortie) to escape famine and epidemics. The attempt resulted in a disaster, with the larger part of the Greeks slain.. Greece on the Ruins of Missolonghi (French: La Grèce sur les ruines de Missolonghi) is an 1826 oil painting by French painter Eugène Delacroix, and now preserved at the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Bordeaux. This painting was inspired by the Third Siege of Missolonghi by the Ottoman forces in 1826, during which many people of the city after the long-time siege (almost a year) decided to attempt a mass breakout (sortie) to escape famine and epidemics. The attempt resulted in a disaster, with the larger part of the Greeks slain.. 
Gabrielle with Open Blouse. Author Name: Pierre-Auguste Renoir. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Gabrielle with Open Blouse (French: Gabrielle Avec la Chemise Ouverte) is an oil on canvas painting by French impressionist artist Pierre-Auguste Renoir. It is in the collection of the Tehran Museum of Contemporary Art. The painting is kept in the basement of the museum and is not displayed because of the model's open blouse.. Gabrielle with Open Blouse (French: Gabrielle Avec la Chemise Ouverte) is an oil on canvas painting by French impressionist artist Pierre-Auguste Renoir. It is in the collection of the Tehran Museum of Contemporary Art. The painting is kept in the basement of the museum and is not displayed because of the model's open blouse.. 
The Mill. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Mill is a painting by Dutch baroque artist Rembrandt Harmenszoon van Rijn. It is in the permanent collection of the National Gallery of Art in Washington DC. For a long time, the attribution to Rembrandt was regarded as doubtful; it has been restored in recent years, although it is not universally accepted. The painting was formerly in the Orleans Collection. It was once owned by Peter Arrell Brown Widener.. The Mill is a painting by Dutch baroque artist Rembrandt Harmenszoon van Rijn. It is in the permanent collection of the National Gallery of Art in Washington DC. For a long time, the attribution to Rembrandt was regarded as doubtful; it has been restored in recent years, although it is not universally accepted. The painting was formerly in the Orleans Collection. It was once owned by Peter Arrell Brown Widener. This painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1915, who wrote; "952. LANDSCAPE WITH A WINDMILL [commonly called, The Mill]. Sm. 601 ; Bode 142 ; Dut. 4 52 ; Wb. 211 ; B.-HdG. 345. Beside a broad moat, high above the circular scarp of a ruined bastion, stands a windmill with some low cottages. The path from the mill leads, on the left, over a little bridge across a sluice, to a landing-post in the foreground. A woman with a child goes down to the water ; a man pushes a barrow upwards. In the centre foreground a woman at the water's edge is washing linen. A man behind watches her. From the right approaches a ferry-boat with the mast down, rowed by a man. To the right on the farther bank, amid dense groves of trees, are some cows, and beyond them a cottage. Evening light. The last rays of the sun illumine the right half of the sky and envelop the mill in their radiant glow. Painted about 1650. Canvas, 34 inches by 41 inches. A copy on panel, 34 1/2 inches by 39 1/2 inches was exhibited at the Grafton Gallery, London, 1911, No. 67 [by T. Humphry Ward]. Etched by Mathieu, Dequevauviller, Turner, P. J. Arendzen. Mentioned by Bode, pp. 493, 579 ; Dutuit, p. 46 ; Michel, pp. 367, 555 [282 -3, 433]; Waagen, iii. 157. Exhibited at the British Institution, London, 1815, No. 37, and 1864, No. 112; at the Royal Academy Winter Exhibition, London, 1878, No. 172 ; 1888, No. 74 ; and 1899, No. 40. Sale. Duc d'Orléans, 1798 (£525, W. Smith) ; see Buchanan, i. 196. In the collection of the Marquess of Lansdowne, Bowood, before 1836 (who is said by Sm. to have paid £840 for it) ; sold to P. A. B. Widener in 1911 (for £100,000). In the collection of P. A. B. Widener, Philadelphia.". 
Venus and Adonis. Author Name: Titian. . . Venus and Adonis is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance artist Titian, executed around 1560. It is currently housed in the Galleria Nazionale d'Arte Antica in Rome. It is one of the numerous version of the same subject.It returned to Italy from Saint Petersburg thanks to the Venetian merchant Pietro Concolo, to be eventually bought by the Roman prince Giovanni Torlonia. In 1862 it was acquired by the collection of Palazzo Barberini, to which it currently belongs.. Venus and Adonis is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance artist Titian, executed around 1560. It is currently housed in the Galleria Nazionale d'Arte Antica in Rome. It is one of the numerous version of the same subject. According to the German artist Friedrich Müller, the painting was commissioned by Emperor Charles V and housed in Prague. Later, King Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden sent it to Stockholm; when the Swedish queen Christina of Sweden abdicated, she took the painting with her to Rome (1654). After her death, it was inherited by Cardinal Decio Azzolino; later it was acquired by the French regent Philippe II of Orléans and by the Russian emperor Paul I. It returned to Italy from Saint Petersburg thanks to the Venetian merchant Pietro Concolo, to be eventually bought by the Roman prince Giovanni Torlonia. In 1862 it was acquired by the collection of Palazzo Barberini, to which it currently belongs.. 
Szał. Author Name: Władysław Podkowiński. . . Frenzy of Exultations (Szał uniesień), or better known as just Frenzy (Szał), is an 1893 painting by Polish artist, Władysław Podkowiński, and is credited as the most famous work in his output. It is considered the first work of symbolism in Polish art, during a period when Poland was partitioned between its neighbours: Russia, Germany and Austria.. Frenzy of Exultations (Szał uniesień), or better known as just Frenzy (Szał), is an 1893 painting by Polish artist, Władysław Podkowiński, and is credited as the most famous work in his output. It is considered the first work of symbolism in Polish art, during a period when Poland was partitioned between its neighbours: Russia, Germany and Austria.. 
The Lictors Bring to Brutus the Bodies of His Sons. Author Name: Jacques-Louis David. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neoclassicism. . The Lictors Bring to Brutus the Bodies of His Sons (French: Les licteurs rapportent à Brutus les corps de ses fils) is a 1789 painting by the French painter Jacques-Louis David in the Neo-Classical manner.The work is housed in the Louvre in Paris.Note Brutus' tense, crossed feet in the picture, the sharp scissors that lay dead in the center of the painting, and the use of light and dark to draw a distinction between Brutus and his wife. Brutus does not even look back as his headless sons are brought into the room.. The Lictors Bring to Brutus the Bodies of His Sons (French: Les licteurs rapportent à Brutus les corps de ses fils) is a 1789 painting by the French painter Jacques-Louis David in the Neo-Classical manner. The work is housed in the Louvre in Paris. The work had tremendous appeal for the time. Before the opening of the Salon, the French Revolution had begun. The National Assembly had been established, and the Bastille had fallen. The royal court did not want propaganda agitating the people, so all paintings had to be checked before being hung. David’s portrait of Lavoisier, who was a chemist and physicist as well as an active member of the Jacobin party, was banned by the authorities for such reasons. When the newspapers reported that the government had not allowed the showing of The Lictors Bring to Brutus the Bodies of His Sons, the people were outraged, and the royals were forced to give in. The painting was hung in the exhibition, protected by art students. The painting depicts Lucius Junius Brutus, the Roman leader, grieving for his sons. Brutus's sons had attempted to overthrow the government and restore the monarchy, so the father ordered their death to maintain the republic. Thus, Brutus was the heroic defender of the republic, at the cost of his own family. On the right, the Mother holds her two daughters, and the servant is seen on the far right, in anguish. Brutus sits on a klismos on the left, alone, brooding, but knowing what he did was best for his country. The whole painting was a Republican symbol, and obviously had immense meaning during these times in France. Note Brutus' tense, crossed feet in the picture, the sharp scissors that lay dead in the center of the painting, and the use of light and dark to draw a distinction between Brutus and his wife. Brutus does not even look back as his headless sons are brought into the room.. 
The Battle of Ostia. Author Name: Raphael. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/High_Renaissance. . The Battle of Ostia (Battaglia di Ostia) is a painting by the workshop of the Italian renaissance artist Raphael. The painting was part of Raphael's commission to decorate the rooms that are now known as the Stanze di Raffaello, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. It is located in the room that was named after The Fire in the Borgo, the Stanza dell'incendio del Borgo and was inspired by the naval battle fought in 849 between the Saracens and a Christian League of Papal, Neapolitan and Gaetan ships. In the painting Pope Leo IV, with the features of Pope Leo X, is giving thanks after the Arab ships were destroyed by a storm.. The Battle of Ostia (Battaglia di Ostia) is a painting by the workshop of the Italian renaissance artist Raphael. The painting was part of Raphael's commission to decorate the rooms that are now known as the Stanze di Raffaello, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. It is located in the room that was named after The Fire in the Borgo, the Stanza dell'incendio del Borgo and was inspired by the naval battle fought in 849 between the Saracens and a Christian League of Papal, Neapolitan and Gaetan ships. In the painting Pope Leo IV, with the features of Pope Leo X, is giving thanks after the Arab ships were destroyed by a storm.. 
The Blinding of Samson. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Blinding of Samson is a 1636 painting by Rembrandt, now in the Städel.. The Blinding of Samson is a 1636 painting by Rembrandt, now in the Städel.. 
The Seamstress. Author Name: Édouard Vuillard. . . The Seamstress is an 1893 oil painting by French artist Édouard Vuillard, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It is a small, intimate image of a woman sewing.. The Seamstress is an 1893 oil painting by French artist Édouard Vuillard, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana. It is a small, intimate image of a woman sewing.. 
The North-West Passage. Author Name: Sir John Everett Millais, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pre-Raphaelite_Brotherhood. . The North-West Passage (1874) is a painting by John Everett Millais. It depicts an elderly sailor sitting at a desk, with his daughter seated in a stool beside him. He stares out at the viewer, while she reads from a log-book. On the desk is a large chart depicting complex passageways between incompletely charted islands.. The North-West Passage (1874) is a painting by John Everett Millais. It depicts an elderly sailor sitting at a desk, with his daughter seated in a stool beside him. He stares out at the viewer, while she reads from a log-book. On the desk is a large chart depicting complex passageways between incompletely charted islands. Millais exhibited the painting with the subtitle "It might be done and England should do it", a line imagined to be spoken by the aged sailor. The title and subtitle refer to the repeated failure of British expeditions to find the northwest passage, a navigable passageway around the north of the American continent. These expeditions "became synonymous with failure, adversity and death, with men and ships battling against hopeless odds in a frozen wilderness.". 
Exhaling Pearls. Author Name: Havel, Joseph. . . Exhaling Pearls is an outdoor 1993 bronze sculpture by postmodernist American artist Joseph Havel, installed at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston's Lillie and Hugh Roy Cullen Sculpture Garden, in the U.S. state of Texas.The sculpture is cast from a rope and two paper lanterns. The museum, who purchased the work with donations from the Nona and Richard Barrett, the Caroline Wiess Law Accessions Endowment Fund, Max and Isabell Smith Herzstein, Isabel B. Wilson, and friends of Havel, has called the work an "improbable hybrid", "[rising] up in a playfully gallant affirmation of life and creation".. Exhaling Pearls is an outdoor 1993 bronze sculpture by postmodernist American artist Joseph Havel, installed at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston's Lillie and Hugh Roy Cullen Sculpture Garden, in the U.S. state of Texas. The sculpture is cast from a rope and two paper lanterns. The museum, who purchased the work with donations from the Nona and Richard Barrett, the Caroline Wiess Law Accessions Endowment Fund, Max and Isabell Smith Herzstein, Isabel B. Wilson, and friends of Havel, has called the work an "improbable hybrid", "[rising] up in a playfully gallant affirmation of life and creation".. 
Man on a Balcony. Author Name: Albert Gleizes. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_art. . Man on a Balcony (also known as Portrait of Dr. Théo Morinaud and 'L'Homme au balcon), is a large oil painting created in 1912 by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes (1881–1953). The painting was exhibited in Paris at the Salon d'Automne of 1912 (no. 689). The Cubist contribution to the salon created a controversy in the French Parliament about the use of public funds to provide the venue for such 'barbaric art'. Gleizes was a founder of Cubism, and demonstrates the principles of the movement in this monumental painting (over six feet tall) with its projecting planes and fragmented lines. The large size of the painting reflects Gleizes's ambition to show it in the large annual salon exhibitions in Paris, where he was able with others of his entourage to bring Cubism to wi. Man on a Balcony (also known as Portrait of Dr. Théo Morinaud and 'L'Homme au balcon), is a large oil painting created in 1912 by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes (1881–1953). The painting was exhibited in Paris at the Salon d'Automne of 1912 (no. 689). The Cubist contribution to the salon created a controversy in the French Parliament about the use of public funds to provide the venue for such 'barbaric art'. Gleizes was a founder of Cubism, and demonstrates the principles of the movement in this monumental painting (over six feet tall) with its projecting planes and fragmented lines. The large size of the painting reflects Gleizes's ambition to show it in the large annual salon exhibitions in Paris, where he was able with others of his entourage to bring Cubism to wider audiences. In February 1913, Gleizes and other artists introduced the new style of modern art known as Cubism to an American audience at the Armory Show in New York City, Chicago and Boston. In addition to Man on a balcony (no. 196), Gleizes exhibited his 1910 painting Femme aux Phlox (Museum of Fine Arts, Houston). Man on a Balcony was reproduced in L'Excelsior, Au Salon d'Automne, Les Indépendants, 2 October 1912. It was then reproduced in Les Peintres Cubistes, Méditations Esthétiques, a collection of essays by Guillaume Apollinaire published in 1913 The painting was completed around the same time as Albert Gleizes co-authored with Jean Metzinger a major treatise titled Du "Cubisme" (the first and only manifesto on Cubism). Man on a Balcony was purchased at the 1913 Armory show by the lawyer, author, art critic, private art collector, and American proponent of Cubism Arthur Jerome Eddy for $540. Gleizes' Man on a Balcony was the frontispiece of Arthur Jerome Eddy's book Cubists and Post-Impressionism, March 1914. The painting later formed part of the Louise and Walter Conrad Arensberg Collection, 1950. It is currently in the permanent collection of the Philadelphia Museum of Art.. 
The Adoration of the Magi. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . The Adoration of the Magi is a 1619 Baroque painting by the Spanish artist Diego Velázquez now held in the Museo del Prado. It shows three kings presenting gifts to the Christ child: Melchoir, who kneels in the foreground; Balthazar, who stands behind him wearing a red cape and a lace collar; and Caspar, who appears between the other two. An unidentified young man who stands behind Balthazar is looking on. Kneeling near the Virgin's left shoulder is Saint Joseph. The size and format of the painting indicate that it was made for an altarpiece.. The Adoration of the Magi is a 1619 Baroque painting by the Spanish artist Diego Velázquez now held in the Museo del Prado. It shows three kings presenting gifts to the Christ child: Melchoir, who kneels in the foreground; Balthazar, who stands behind him wearing a red cape and a lace collar; and Caspar, who appears between the other two. An unidentified young man who stands behind Balthazar is looking on. Kneeling near the Virgin's left shoulder is Saint Joseph. The size and format of the painting indicate that it was made for an altarpiece.. 
Bust of Monsignor Pedro de Foix Montoya. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Bust of Monsignor Pedro de Foix Montoya is a sculpted portrait by the Italian artist Gianlorenzo Bernini. Executed in 1621 and 1622, it sits within a larger tomb created for Montoya, a Spanish lawyer working in Rome. The tomb was originally in the Spanish national church in Rome, San Giacomo degli Spagnuoli, but was moved in the nineteenth century when the church fell out of Spanish possession. The monument now sits in the refectory attached to the Roman church of Santa Maria di Monserrato. The architecture for the tomb was undertaken by Orazio Turriani.. Bust of Monsignor Pedro de Foix Montoya is a sculpted portrait by the Italian artist Gianlorenzo Bernini. Executed in 1621 and 1622, it sits within a larger tomb created for Montoya, a Spanish lawyer working in Rome. The tomb was originally in the Spanish national church in Rome, San Giacomo degli Spagnuoli, but was moved in the nineteenth century when the church fell out of Spanish possession. The monument now sits in the refectory attached to the Roman church of Santa Maria di Monserrato. The architecture for the tomb was undertaken by Orazio Turriani.. 
Arearea. Author Name: Paul Gauguin. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Post-Impressionism. . Arearea is a 1892 work by French painter Paul Gauguin. It was one of the works Gauguin exhibited at his 1893 Durand-Ruel exhibition in Paris. It was bequeathed to the French state in 1961, and was in the collection of the Louvre. From 1986, the painting has been in the collection of the Musée d'Orsay.. Arearea is a 1892 work by French painter Paul Gauguin. It was one of the works Gauguin exhibited at his 1893 Durand-Ruel exhibition in Paris. It was bequeathed to the French state in 1961, and was in the collection of the Louvre. From 1986, the painting has been in the collection of the Musée d'Orsay.. 
Grrrrrrrrrrr!!. Author Name: Roy Lichtenstein. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pop_art. . Grrrrrrrrrrr!! is a 1965 oil and Magna on canvas painting by Roy Lichtenstein. Measuring 68 in × 56.125 in (172.7 cm × 142.6 cm), it was bequeathed to the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum collection from Lichtenstein's estate. It depicts a head-on representation of an angry dog growling with the onomatopoeic expression "Grrrrrrrrrrr!!". The work was derived from Our Fighting Forces, which also served as the source for other military dog paintwork by Lichtenstein.. Grrrrrrrrrrr!! is a 1965 oil and Magna on canvas painting by Roy Lichtenstein. Measuring 68 in × 56.125 in (172.7 cm × 142.6 cm), it was bequeathed to the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum collection from Lichtenstein's estate. It depicts a head-on representation of an angry dog growling with the onomatopoeic expression "Grrrrrrrrrrr!!". The work was derived from Our Fighting Forces, which also served as the source for other military dog paintwork by Lichtenstein.. 
Mega-Gem. Author Name: John Torreano. . . Mega-Gem is an outdoor sculpture by American artist John Francis Torreano (born 1941). It is located on the Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis (IUPUI) campus, which is near downtown Indianapolis, Indiana, and is owned by the Indianapolis Museum of Art. The oversized sculpture, made of aluminum, is shaped like a round-cut diamond resting on one its facets and studded with 36 smaller, colored-metal rosettes.. Mega-Gem is an outdoor sculpture by American artist John Francis Torreano (born 1941). It is located on the Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis (IUPUI) campus, which is near downtown Indianapolis, Indiana, and is owned by the Indianapolis Museum of Art. The oversized sculpture, made of aluminum, is shaped like a round-cut diamond resting on one its facets and studded with 36 smaller, colored-metal rosettes.. 
Portrait of a Man. Author Name: Diego Velázquez. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Portrait of a Man is an oil painting by Diego Velázquez, measuring 68.6 × 55.2 cm (27 × 213⁄4 in.), and painted c. 1630–1635. The painting is in the collection of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. Long the subject of uncertainty regarding its authorship, Portrait of a Man has recently been re-attributed to Diego Velázquez.. Portrait of a Man is an oil painting by Diego Velázquez, measuring 68.6 × 55.2 cm (27 × 213⁄4 in.), and painted c. 1630–1635. The painting is in the collection of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. Long the subject of uncertainty regarding its authorship, Portrait of a Man has recently been re-attributed to Diego Velázquez.. 
King Cophetua and the Beggar Maid. Author Name: Sir Edward Burne-Jones, Bt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Aestheticism. . King Cophetua and the Beggar Maid is an 1884 painting by the Pre-Raphaelite artist Edward Burne-Jones. The painting illustrates the story of 'The King and the Beggar-maid", which tells the legend of the prince Cophetua and his love for the beggar Penelophon. The tale was familiar to Burne-Jones through an Elizabethan ballad published in Bishop Thomas Percy's 1765 Reliques of Ancient English Poetry and the sixteen-line poem The Beggar Maid by Alfred, Lord Tennyson.. King Cophetua and the Beggar Maid is an 1884 painting by the Pre-Raphaelite artist Edward Burne-Jones. The painting illustrates the story of 'The King and the Beggar-maid", which tells the legend of the prince Cophetua and his love for the beggar Penelophon. The tale was familiar to Burne-Jones through an Elizabethan ballad published in Bishop Thomas Percy's 1765 Reliques of Ancient English Poetry and the sixteen-line poem The Beggar Maid by Alfred, Lord Tennyson. Burne-Jones first attempted the story in an oil painting of 1861–62 (now in the Tate Gallery, London). He was working out a new composition around 1874 or 1875, and began the painting in earnest in 1881. He worked on it through the winter of 1883-84, declaring it finished in April 1884. The composition is influenced by Andrea Mantegna's Madonna della Vittoria (1496–96). Several studies for the final work survive. A small gouache (bodycolour) of c. 1883 (now in the collection of Andrew Lloyd Webber) shows the king and the beggar maid much closer together, and a full-scale cartoon in bodycolour and coloured chalks of the same year (now in the Birmingham Museum and Art Gallery) features an entirely different approach to lighting the figures. King Cophetua was exhibited at the Grosvenor Gallery in 1884 and became Burne-Jones's greatest success of the 1880s for its technical execution and its themes of power and wealth overborne by beauty and simplicity. It was heralded as the "picture of the year" by The Art Journal and "not only the finest work Mr Burne-Jones has ever painted, but one of the finest pictures ever painted by an Englishman" by The Times. The painting was exhibited in France in 1889, where its popularity earned Burne-Jones the Legion of Honour and began a vogue for his work. The artist's wife Georgiana Burne-Jones felt "this picture contained more of Edward's own qualities than any other he did." The painting was purchased by the Earl of Wharncliffe (d. 1899) and acquired by public subscription through the Burne-Jones Memorial Fund from his executors in 1900. It is now in Tate Britain. The full-scale cartoon was acquired for Birmingham in 1947.. 
L'Homme au doigt. Author Name: Alberto Giacometti. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . L'Homme au doigt (Pointing Man) or (Man Pointing) is a 1947 bronze sculpture by Alberto Giacometti, that became the most expensive sculpture ever when it sold for US$141.3 million on 11 May 2015.Giacometti made six casts of the work plus one artist's proof. Pointing Man is in the collections of New York's Museum of Modern Art and London's Tate Gallery. Two of the others are also in museums, the rest in foundation collections or owned privately.. L'Homme au doigt (Pointing Man) or (Man Pointing) is a 1947 bronze sculpture by Alberto Giacometti, that became the most expensive sculpture ever when it sold for US$141.3 million on 11 May 2015. Giacometti made six casts of the work plus one artist's proof. Pointing Man is in the collections of New York's Museum of Modern Art and London's Tate Gallery. Two of the others are also in museums, the rest in foundation collections or owned privately. L’homme au doigt sold for $126 million, or $141.3 million with fees, in Christie's 11 May 2015 Looking Forward to the Past sale in New York, a record for a sculpture at auction. The work had been in the same private collection for 45 years. Christie's called it a "rare masterpiece", and "Giacometti’s most iconic and evocative sculpture", and estimated that it would sell "in the region of $130 million". Christie's also noted that the cast in their auction is believed to be the only one that Giacometti "painted by hand in order to heighten its expressive impact". Another Giacometti work, L'Homme qui marche I, had also been the most expensive sculpture ever sold at auction, when it sold for £65 million (US$104.3 million) at Sotheby's, London on 2 February 2010.. 
Bal du moulin de la Galette. Author Name: Pierre-Auguste Renoir. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . Bal du moulin de la Galette (commonly known as Dance at Le moulin de la Galette) is an 1876 painting by French artist Pierre-Auguste Renoir. It is housed at the Musée d'Orsay in Paris and is one of Impressionism's most celebrated masterpieces. The painting depicts a typical Sunday afternoon at Moulin de la Galette in the district of Montmartre in Paris. In the late 19th century, working class Parisians would dress up and spend time there dancing, drinking, and eating galettes into the evening.:121–3. Bal du moulin de la Galette (commonly known as Dance at Le moulin de la Galette) is an 1876 painting by French artist Pierre-Auguste Renoir. It is housed at the Musée d'Orsay in Paris and is one of Impressionism's most celebrated masterpieces. The painting depicts a typical Sunday afternoon at Moulin de la Galette in the district of Montmartre in Paris. In the late 19th century, working class Parisians would dress up and spend time there dancing, drinking, and eating galettes into the evening.:121–3 Like other works of Renoir's early maturity, Bal du moulin de la Galette is a typically Impressionist snapshot of real life. It shows a richness of form, a fluidity of brush stroke, and a flickering light. From 1879 to 1894 the painting was in the collection of the French painter Gustave Caillebotte; when he died it became the property of the French Republic as payment for death duties. From 1896 to 1929 the painting hung in the Musée du Luxembourg in Paris. From 1929 it hung in the Musée du Louvre until it was transferred to the Musée d'Orsay in 1986.. 
The Three Ages of Man. Author Name: Titian. . . The Three Ages of Man is a painting by Titian, dated between 1512 and 1514, and now displayed at the National Gallery of Scotland in Edinburgh. The 90 cm high by 151 cm wide Renaissance art work was most likely influenced by Giorgione’s themes and motifs of landscapes and nude figures—Titian was known to have completed some of Giorgione’s unfinished works after Giorgione died at age 33 of the plague in 1510. The painting represents the artist’s conception of the life cycle. Childhood and manhood are synonymous with earthly love and death approaching old age are drawn realistically. Titian’s widely chosen topic in art history, ages of man, mixed with his own allegorical interpretation make The Three Ages of Man is one of Titian’s most famous works.. The Three Ages of Man is a painting by Titian, dated between 1512 and 1514, and now displayed at the National Gallery of Scotland in Edinburgh. The 90 cm high by 151 cm wide Renaissance art work was most likely influenced by Giorgione’s themes and motifs of landscapes and nude figures—Titian was known to have completed some of Giorgione’s unfinished works after Giorgione died at age 33 of the plague in 1510. The painting represents the artist’s conception of the life cycle. Childhood and manhood are synonymous with earthly love and death approaching old age are drawn realistically. Titian’s widely chosen topic in art history, ages of man, mixed with his own allegorical interpretation make The Three Ages of Man is one of Titian’s most famous works.. 
Saint Longinus. Author Name: Gian Lorenzo Bernini. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Saint Longinus is a sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Completed in 1638, the marble sculpture sits in the north-eastern niche in the crossing of St. Peter's Basilica in Vatican City. it is over four metres high. An early spectator of the statue, the English diarist John Evelyn, called it a work of "Colossean magnitude".. Saint Longinus is a sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Completed in 1638, the marble sculpture sits in the north-eastern niche in the crossing of St. Peter's Basilica in Vatican City. it is over four metres high. An early spectator of the statue, the English diarist John Evelyn, called it a work of "Colossean magnitude".. 
Statue of the Republic. Author Name: Daniel Chester French. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/American_Renaissance. . The Statue of the Republic is a 24-foot-high (7.3 m) gilded bronze sculpture in Jackson Park, Chicago, Illinois. It is a smaller-scale replica constructed in 1918 to commemorate the 25th anniversary of the World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago, where the original statue was, and commemorates the Illinois statehood centennial. The statue was funded by the Benjamin Ferguson Fund, which commissioned Daniel Chester French, the sculptor of the original 65-foot-tall (20 m) statue that stood on the grounds of the World's Columbian Exposition of 1893, to sculpt this replica. Henry Bacon, the architect of the Lincoln Memorial, designed the festooned pedestal for the replica statue.. The Statue of the Republic is a 24-foot-high (7.3 m) gilded bronze sculpture in Jackson Park, Chicago, Illinois. It is a smaller-scale replica constructed in 1918 to commemorate the 25th anniversary of the World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago, where the original statue was, and commemorates the Illinois statehood centennial. The statue was funded by the Benjamin Ferguson Fund, which commissioned Daniel Chester French, the sculptor of the original 65-foot-tall (20 m) statue that stood on the grounds of the World's Columbian Exposition of 1893, to sculpt this replica. Henry Bacon, the architect of the Lincoln Memorial, designed the festooned pedestal for the replica statue. The statue's right hand holds a globe; an eagle with wings spread perches on it. The other hand grasps a staff with a plaque that reads "liberty", partly obscured by an encircling laurel wreath. The original at the Exposition had instead a Phyrigian cap on top of the staff. The original was only partly gilded (no gold on the exposed skin of the head, neck and arms), but the new version is completely gilded. The original statue for the Exposition, constructed in 1893, stood in front of the Court of Honor, inside the Great Basin (pool). However, in 1896 the statue succumbed to a fire, destroying it. The current statue stands in the area between the exposition's Electricity and Administration Buildings (both demolished after the exposition), now an intersection, where Richards Drive joins Hayes Drive. The statue is widely known in Chicago by the colloquial name of the "Golden Lady." It was designated a Chicago Landmark on June 4, 2003.. 
In The Loge. Author Name: Mary Cassatt. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Impressionism. . In The Loge is an 1878 Impressionist painting by American artist Mary Cassatt. It depicts a woman at the Garnier Opera using opera glasses to examine the audience, while she herself is being spied upon by another gentleman in the audience. This piece demonstrates various types of gaze within a painting, that of the audience (male), the subject and a putti. This example is exemplified in Édouard Manet's piece Olympia.. In The Loge is an 1878 Impressionist painting by American artist Mary Cassatt. It depicts a woman at the Garnier Opera using opera glasses to examine the audience, while she herself is being spied upon by another gentleman in the audience. This piece demonstrates various types of gaze within a painting, that of the audience (male), the subject and a putti. This example is exemplified in Édouard Manet's piece Olympia.. 
The Alarm. Author Name: Boyle, John. . . The Alarm (Indian Alarm) is a Bronze statue by  John J. Boyle located in Lincoln Park, Chicago.It was commissioned in 1880, and dedicated on May 17, 1884.On the base are four incised granite tablets with scenes of Ottawa life: "The Peace Pipe," "The Corn Dance," "Forestry," and "The Hunt.". The Alarm (Indian Alarm) is a Bronze statue by John J. Boyle located in Lincoln Park, Chicago. It was commissioned in 1880, and dedicated on May 17, 1884. On the base are four incised granite tablets with scenes of Ottawa life: "The Peace Pipe," "The Corn Dance," "Forestry," and "The Hunt.". 
Ellen Terry as Lady Macbeth. Author Name: John Singer Sargent. . . Ellen Terry as Lady Macbeth is an oil painting by John Singer Sargent. Painted in 1889, it depicts actress Ellen Terry in a famous performance of William Shakespeare's tragedy Macbeth, wearing a green dress decorated with iridescent beetle wings. The play was produced by Henry Irving at the Lyceum Theatre, London, with Irving also playing Macbeth opposite Terry. Sargent attended the opening night on 29 December 1888 and was inspired to paint Terry's portrait almost immediately.. Ellen Terry as Lady Macbeth is an oil painting by John Singer Sargent. Painted in 1889, it depicts actress Ellen Terry in a famous performance of William Shakespeare's tragedy Macbeth, wearing a green dress decorated with iridescent beetle wings. The play was produced by Henry Irving at the Lyceum Theatre, London, with Irving also playing Macbeth opposite Terry. Sargent attended the opening night on 29 December 1888 and was inspired to paint Terry's portrait almost immediately.. 
Self-Portrait at the Age of 63. Author Name: Rembrandt van Rijn. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Self-Portrait at the Age of 63 is a self-portrait by the Dutch artist Rembrandt, now in the National Gallery, London. Dating to 1669, it was the last in his long series of self-portraits.. Self-Portrait at the Age of 63 is a self-portrait by the Dutch artist Rembrandt, now in the National Gallery, London. Dating to 1669, it was the last in his long series of self-portraits.. 
An East View of the Great Cataract of Niagara. Author Name: Thomas Davies. . . An East View of the Great Cataract of Niagara is a historic watercolour of Niagara Falls painted on site by Thomas Davies (c. 1737–1812) in 1762. It was the first eyewitness painting and the first accurate view of the falls.. An East View of the Great Cataract of Niagara is a historic watercolour of Niagara Falls painted on site by Thomas Davies (c. 1737–1812) in 1762. It was the first eyewitness painting and the first accurate view of the falls.. 
Woodland Indian and Whistling Swans. Author Name: Marshall M. Fredericks. . . Woodland Indian and Whistling Swans is a bronze sculpture created by American sculptor Marshall Fredericks in 1963. It is located at the Milwaukee Public Museum at 800 West Wells Street, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.. Woodland Indian and Whistling Swans is a bronze sculpture created by American sculptor Marshall Fredericks in 1963. It is located at the Milwaukee Public Museum at 800 West Wells Street, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.. 
St. Jerome the Priest. Author Name: Ivan Meštrović. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Art_Nouveau. . St. Jerome the Priest is a bronze statue, by Ivan Meštrović, located at 2343 Massachusetts Avenue, Northwest, Washington, D.C..Ivan Mestrovic donated this work to the Croatian Franciscan Fathers, who commissioned it as Saint Jerome was born on the territory of modern Croatia. It was originally located at the Franciscan Fathers' Abbey on 1359 Monroe Street, N.E., Washington, D.C., and was later moved to the front of the Croatian embassy on Embassy Row.The inscription reads:(On front of base:). St. Jerome the Priest is a bronze statue, by Ivan Meštrović, located at 2343 Massachusetts Avenue, Northwest, Washington, D.C.. Ivan Mestrovic donated this work to the Croatian Franciscan Fathers, who commissioned it as Saint Jerome was born on the territory of modern Croatia. It was originally located at the Franciscan Fathers' Abbey on 1359 Monroe Street, N.E., Washington, D.C., and was later moved to the front of the Croatian embassy on Embassy Row. The inscription reads:(On front of base:). 
Painting. Author Name: Joan Miró. . Author Movement: Surrealism, Dada, Personal, Experimental. . Painting (Blue Star) (French: Peinture (Étoile Bleue)) is a 1927 painting by the Catalan artist Joan Miró. In June 2012, it sold at auction for £23.5 million, setting a new record for the highest price paid for a painting by Miró.. Painting (Blue Star) (French: Peinture (Étoile Bleue)) is a 1927 painting by the Catalan artist Joan Miró. In June 2012, it sold at auction for £23.5 million, setting a new record for the highest price paid for a painting by Miró.. 
The Siege of Asola. Author Name: Tintoretto. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Renaissance. . The Siege of Asola is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance master Tintoretto, executed in 1544-1545. It is in a private collection.The canvas portrays two scenes. From the left to the middle is, in the foreground, a clash of knights occurred during the siege of the Venetian town of Asola by the troops of the Austrian emperor Maximilian I in 1516. Among the clashing soldiers is the banner of Asola, the fortress itself being shown in the background.. The Siege of Asola is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance master Tintoretto, executed in 1544-1545. It is in a private collection. The canvas portrays two scenes. From the left to the middle is, in the foreground, a clash of knights occurred during the siege of the Venetian town of Asola by the troops of the Austrian emperor Maximilian I in 1516. Among the clashing soldiers is the banner of Asola, the fortress itself being shown in the background. On the right is depicted to homage of the citizens of Asola to the Venetian provveditore (curator) Francesco Contarini, the nobleman who organized the city's defence and forced Maximilian's troop to withdraw.. 
Madonna and Child with Three Angels. Author Name: Sandro Botticelli. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Italian_Renaissance. . The Madonna and Child with Three Angels (also known as Madonna del Padiglione) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli, executed in 1493. It is housed in the Pinacoteca Ambrosiana of Milan.The Virgin Mary is portrayed while giving her breast to the Child, the latter being supported by an angel. The Italian name (padiglione meaning "pavilion") derives from the rich baldachin over the scene.. The Madonna and Child with Three Angels (also known as Madonna del Padiglione) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli, executed in 1493. It is housed in the Pinacoteca Ambrosiana of Milan. The Virgin Mary is portrayed while giving her breast to the Child, the latter being supported by an angel. The Italian name (padiglione meaning "pavilion") derives from the rich baldachin over the scene.. 
George Washington. Author Name: Giuseppe Ceracchi. . . George Washington is a marble bust portrait of George Washington, done in the style of a Roman emperor, by the Italian sculptor Giuseppe Ceracchi. It was created as part of a campaign by Ceracchi to build a larger monument to Washington. The bust was thought by many to be one of the most lifelike. It was later used as a model of Washington for works by other sculptors and engravers.. George Washington is a marble bust portrait of George Washington, done in the style of a Roman emperor, by the Italian sculptor Giuseppe Ceracchi. It was created as part of a campaign by Ceracchi to build a larger monument to Washington. The bust was thought by many to be one of the most lifelike. It was later used as a model of Washington for works by other sculptors and engravers.. 
Vaillancourt Fountain. Author Name: Armand Vaillancourt. . . The Vaillancourt Fountain, sometimes called Quebec libre!, is a large fountain located in Justin Herman Plaza in San Francisco, designed by the Québécois artist Armand Vaillancourt in 1971. It is about 40 feet (12 m) high and is constructed out of precast concrete square tubes. Long considered controversial because of its stark, modernist appearance, there have been several unsuccessful proposals to demolish the fountain over the years. It was the site of a free concert by U2 in 1987, when lead singer Bono spray painted graffiti on the fountain and was both praised and criticized for the action.. The Vaillancourt Fountain, sometimes called Quebec libre!, is a large fountain located in Justin Herman Plaza in San Francisco, designed by the Québécois artist Armand Vaillancourt in 1971. It is about 40 feet (12 m) high and is constructed out of precast concrete square tubes. Long considered controversial because of its stark, modernist appearance, there have been several unsuccessful proposals to demolish the fountain over the years. It was the site of a free concert by U2 in 1987, when lead singer Bono spray painted graffiti on the fountain and was both praised and criticized for the action.. 
The Third-Class Carriage. Author Name: Honoré Daumier. . . The Third-Class Carriage is a c. 1862-1864 oil on canvas painting by Honoré Daumier, in the collection of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. A similar painting by Daumier with the same title is in the National Gallery of Canada.Daumier had drawn and painted images of rail travel since the 1840s. This version of The Third-Class Carriage appears to be closely related to an 1864 watercolor now in the Walters Art Museum. The painting is unfinished, and is squared for transfer.The painting entered the Metropolitan Museum in 1929 as part of the H. O. Havemeyer bequest.. The Third-Class Carriage is a c. 1862-1864 oil on canvas painting by Honoré Daumier, in the collection of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. A similar painting by Daumier with the same title is in the National Gallery of Canada. Daumier had drawn and painted images of rail travel since the 1840s. This version of The Third-Class Carriage appears to be closely related to an 1864 watercolor now in the Walters Art Museum. The painting is unfinished, and is squared for transfer. The Third-Class Carriage evidences Daumier's interest, as also seen in his graphic works, in the lives of working-class Parisians. Third-class railway carriages were cramped, dirty, open compartments with hard benches, filled with those who could not afford second or first-class tickets. In the bench facing the viewer are seated, from left, a woman holding her baby, an older woman with her hands clasped atop a basket, and a young boy asleep. Seated behind them are anonymous rows of women and men. The painting entered the Metropolitan Museum in 1929 as part of the H. O. Havemeyer bequest.. 
Gay Liberation. Author Name: George Segal. . . The Gay Liberation Monument is a monument featuring the sculpture Gay Liberation by American artist George Segal, located in Christopher Park along Christopher Street in Manhattan, New York. Located at the northern end of the park, the art installation commemorates the Stonewall riots and features four figures (two standing men and two seated women) positioned in "natural, easy" poses. The bronze statues are covered in white lacquer, cast in 1980 from plaster moulds of human models. Two "World's Fair-style" benches and a plaque are also part of the monument. The monument was dedicated on June 23, 1992.. The Gay Liberation Monument is a monument featuring the sculpture Gay Liberation by American artist George Segal, located in Christopher Park along Christopher Street in Manhattan, New York. Located at the northern end of the park, the art installation commemorates the Stonewall riots and features four figures (two standing men and two seated women) positioned in "natural, easy" poses. The bronze statues are covered in white lacquer, cast in 1980 from plaster moulds of human models. Two "World's Fair-style" benches and a plaque are also part of the monument. The monument was dedicated on June 23, 1992. The sculpture was originally commissioned in 1979 (10th anniversary of the Stonewall incident) by the Cleveland-based Mildred Andrews Fund. The commission specified that the work must be installed on public land and that it "had to be loving and caring, and show the affection that is the hallmark of gay people. . . . And it had to have equal representation of men and women." It was completed in 1980 and was the first piece of public art dedicated to LGBT rights. It was intended for installation in New York but proved too controversial for the city. It was instead installed in Orton Park in Madison, Wisconsin from 1986 to 1991. The Madison installation was funded by the New Harvest Foundation. It was finally moved to New York in 1992. A second casting of the work was intended for Los Angeles but was also refused by the city. In 1984 it was installed on Stanford University's Main Quad as a "long term loan". The sculpture was vandalized several times during the first ten years, but eventually became an accepted part of Stanford's public art. In August 2015, anonymous activists painted two of the figures' faces brown to protest the way the statues "white- and cis-wash a movement led by black and brown queer and trans people".. 
Christian Wahl. Author Name: Gaetano Trentanove. . . Christian Wahl is a public artwork by Italian artist Gaetano Trentanove located in Wahl Park, which is in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States. The bronze bust of Milwaukee businessman Christian Wahl was created in 1903, and is set atop a red granite pedestal. Altogether it measures 8 feet in height.. Christian Wahl is a public artwork by Italian artist Gaetano Trentanove located in Wahl Park, which is in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States. The bronze bust of Milwaukee businessman Christian Wahl was created in 1903, and is set atop a red granite pedestal. Altogether it measures 8 feet in height.. 
Cattleya Orchid and Three Hummingbirds. Author Name: Martin Johnson Heade. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Hudson_River_School. . Cattleya Orchid and Three Hummingbirds (1871) is an oil on mahogany panel picture by Martin Johnson Heade acquired by the National Gallery of Art in 1982. Inspired perhaps by the works of Charles Darwin and Frederic Edwin Church, Heade planned to produce a deluxe book in the 1860s depicting Brazilian hummingbirds in tropical settings, and, to that end, created a series of 40 small pictures called The Gems of Brazil. The project was abandoned, but Heade retained his interest in hummingbirds and continued to paint them in combination with orchids and jungle backgrounds through the 1870s. The NGA describes the work: "Lichen covers dead branches; moss drips from trees; and, a blue-gray mist veils the distant jungle. An opulent pink orchid with light-green stems and pods dominates the left fore. Cattleya Orchid and Three Hummingbirds (1871) is an oil on mahogany panel picture by Martin Johnson Heade acquired by the National Gallery of Art in 1982. Inspired perhaps by the works of Charles Darwin and Frederic Edwin Church, Heade planned to produce a deluxe book in the 1860s depicting Brazilian hummingbirds in tropical settings, and, to that end, created a series of 40 small pictures called The Gems of Brazil. The project was abandoned, but Heade retained his interest in hummingbirds and continued to paint them in combination with orchids and jungle backgrounds through the 1870s. The NGA describes the work: "Lichen covers dead branches; moss drips from trees; and, a blue-gray mist veils the distant jungle. An opulent pink orchid with light-green stems and pods dominates the left foreground." On the right, two green-and-pink Brazilian Amethysts hover about a nest while a red-tailed Sappho Comet perches nearby.. 
Samuel Gross. Author Name: Alexander Stirling Calder. . . Samuel Gross is a bronze statue by Alexander Stirling Calder as a tribute to Samuel D. Gross, an American surgeon.It is located in Sidney and Ethal Lubert Plaza, on the North side of Locust Street, East of 11th Street, Philadelphia.It was completed in 1897, and dedicated by president William McKinley, in the Smithsonian Park of the U.S. Capitol on a pedestal appropriated by the U.S. Congress.In April 1970, it was relocated to the campus of Thomas Jefferson University in Center City Philadelphia.1897 signed Founder's mark appears.. Samuel Gross is a bronze statue by Alexander Stirling Calder as a tribute to Samuel D. Gross, an American surgeon.It is located in Sidney and Ethal Lubert Plaza, on the North side of Locust Street, East of 11th Street, Philadelphia. It was completed in 1897, and dedicated by president William McKinley, in the Smithsonian Park of the U.S. Capitol on a pedestal appropriated by the U.S. Congress. In April 1970, it was relocated to the campus of Thomas Jefferson University in Center City Philadelphia. The inscription reads:JABOEUF & BEZOUT FONDEURS A PARIS (Sculpture, lower proper left side:) CALDER (Base, front:) 1897 signed Founder's mark appears.. 
McMillan Fountain. Author Name: Herbert Adams. . . The McMillan Fountain is a public artwork by American artist Herbert Adams located on the Reservoir grounds. The fountain, completed in 1912 and dedicated in October 1919, consists of a The Three Graces placed upon a pink granite base. Cast by Roman Bronze Works, the fountain was originally part of a large landscape setting designed by Charles A. Platt. The fountain currently resides near its original location at McMillan Reservoir in the Bloomingdale neighborhood of Washington, D.C.. The McMillan Fountain is a public artwork by American artist Herbert Adams located on the Reservoir grounds. The fountain, completed in 1912 and dedicated in October 1919, consists of a The Three Graces placed upon a pink granite base. Cast by Roman Bronze Works, the fountain was originally part of a large landscape setting designed by Charles A. Platt. The fountain currently resides near its original location at McMillan Reservoir in the Bloomingdale neighborhood of Washington, D.C.. 
Abraham Lincoln. Author Name: Daniel Chester French. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/American_Renaissance. . Abraham Lincoln (1920) is a colossal seated figure of U.S. President Abraham Lincoln (1809–1865) sculpted by Daniel Chester French (1850–1931) and carved by the Piccirilli Brothers. It is situated in the Lincoln Memorial (constructed 1914–22), on the National Mall, Washington, D.C., USA, and was unveiled in 1922. Stylistically, the work follows in the Beaux Arts and American Renaissance traditions.. Abraham Lincoln (1920) is a colossal seated figure of U.S. President Abraham Lincoln (1809–1865) sculpted by Daniel Chester French (1850–1931) and carved by the Piccirilli Brothers. It is situated in the Lincoln Memorial (constructed 1914–22), on the National Mall, Washington, D.C., USA, and was unveiled in 1922. Stylistically, the work follows in the Beaux Arts and American Renaissance traditions.. 
Terra Incognita. Author Name: Averbuch, Ilan. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Abstract_art. . Terra Incognita is an outdoor 1995 sculpture by Israeli artist Ilan Averbuch, located at the foot of the Broadway Bridge in Portland, Oregon.. Terra Incognita is an outdoor 1995 sculpture by Israeli artist Ilan Averbuch, located at the foot of the Broadway Bridge in Portland, Oregon.. 
Mona Lisa. Author Name: Leonardo da Vinci. . . The Mona Lisa (/ˌmoʊnə ˈliːsə/; Italian: Monna Lisa [ˈmɔnna ˈliːza] or La Gioconda [la dʒoˈkonda], French: La Joconde [la ʒɔkɔ̃d]) is a half-length portrait of a woman by the Italian artist Leonardo da Vinci, which has been acclaimed as "the best known, the most visited, the most written about, the most sung about, the most parodied work of art in the world".. The Mona Lisa (/ˌmoʊnə ˈliːsə/; Italian: Monna Lisa [ˈmɔnna ˈliːza] or La Gioconda [la dʒoˈkonda], French: La Joconde [la ʒɔkɔ̃d]) is a half-length portrait of a woman by the Italian artist Leonardo da Vinci, which has been acclaimed as "the best known, the most visited, the most written about, the most sung about, the most parodied work of art in the world". The painting, thought to be a portrait of Lisa Gherardini, the wife of Francesco del Giocondo, is in oil on a white Lombardy poplar panel, and is believed to have been painted between 1503 and 1506. Leonardo may have continued working on it as late as 1517. It was acquired by King Francis I of France and is now the property of the French Republic, on permanent display at the Louvre Museum in Paris since 1797. The subject's expression, which is frequently described as enigmatic, the monumentality of the composition, the subtle modeling of forms, and the atmospheric illusionism were novel qualities that have contributed to the continuing fascination and study of the work.. 
Nude in a Black Armchair. Author Name: Pablo Picasso. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Cubism. . Nude in a Black Armchair (Nu au Fauteuil Noir) is a painting by Pablo Picasso. Painted on March 9, 1932, a time at which Picasso lived in Boisgeloup outside Paris, it is the first and largest of a series of paintings Picasso completed that year of his mistress Marie-Thérèse Walter.In 1999 it was bought by Les Wexner, founder of Limited Brands, for 45.1 million USD.. Nude in a Black Armchair (Nu au Fauteuil Noir) is a painting by Pablo Picasso. Painted on March 9, 1932, a time at which Picasso lived in Boisgeloup outside Paris, it is the first and largest of a series of paintings Picasso completed that year of his mistress Marie-Thérèse Walter. The art critic Richard Lacayo cites the painting as an example of the creative give-and-take between Picasso and Henri Matisse, in which Picasso "borrowed Matisse's voluptuous curves as a sign for pleasure and his use of black to intensify pink". Former Museum of Modern Art curator William Rubin deemed it a "squishy sexual toy,"and other critics have described a theme of fecundity being mutually displayed by both the female figure and the plant. In 1999 it was bought by Les Wexner, founder of Limited Brands, for 45.1 million USD.. 
The Adoration of the Shepherds. Author Name: Sir Peter Paul Rubens. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Baroque. . Adoration of the Shepherds is an oil on canvas painting dating to 1608, painted by Peter Paul Rubens. It was rediscovered at the start of the twentieth century by the art historian Roberto Longhi, who identified it with the painting recorded as La notte in 1607.Produced in around three months for the church of saint Philip Neri in Fermo, its chiaroscuro is in the style of Caravaggio, who Rubens had got to know in Rome during the Flemish painter's ten years' study in Italy.It is now held at the Pinacoteca civica in Fermo.. Adoration of the Shepherds is an oil on canvas painting dating to 1608, painted by Peter Paul Rubens. It was rediscovered at the start of the twentieth century by the art historian Roberto Longhi, who identified it with the painting recorded as La notte in 1607. Produced in around three months for the church of saint Philip Neri in Fermo, its chiaroscuro is in the style of Caravaggio, who Rubens had got to know in Rome during the Flemish painter's ten years' study in Italy.It is now held at the Pinacoteca civica in Fermo. It shows the shepherds reaching the stable of the Nativity, with the Virgin Mary showing the baby Jesus to the shepherds, four swirling angels holding up a scroll announcing Jesus's birth and with St Joseph, two female figures and two male figures in the left background. It has recently been suggested[who?] that the elderly female figure can be identified with the disbelieving midwife of the Gospel of James, raising her hands to heaven as she is cured.. 
The Sower. Author Name: Grohar, Ivan. . . The Sower (Slovene: Sejalec), created in 1907, is an oil on canvas painting by the Slovene Impressionist painter and musician Ivan Grohar. It is an image of a peasant sowing seeds on a ploughed field in an early and foggy morning. A hayrack, typical of the Slovene landscape, stands in the back, and even farther, the rocks of the small hill Kamnitnik near Škofja Loka. It has been a metaphor for the 19-th century myth of Slovenes as a vigorous nation in front of an unclear destiny, a symbol for the Slovene nation that sows in order that it could harvest, and a depiction of human interrelatedness with the nature. It is also a reflection of the context of Slovene transition from a rural to an urban culture. It has become one of the most characteristic and established Slovene creations in visua. The Sower (Slovene: Sejalec), created in 1907, is an oil on canvas painting by the Slovene Impressionist painter and musician Ivan Grohar. It is an image of a peasant sowing seeds on a ploughed field in an early and foggy morning. A hayrack, typical of the Slovene landscape, stands in the back, and even farther, the rocks of the small hill Kamnitnik near Škofja Loka. It has been a metaphor for the 19-th century myth of Slovenes as a vigorous nation in front of an unclear destiny, a symbol for the Slovene nation that sows in order that it could harvest, and a depiction of human interrelatedness with the nature. It is also a reflection of the context of Slovene transition from a rural to an urban culture. It has become one of the most characteristic and established Slovene creations in visual arts. It has been used by the IRWIN art group as well as the Semenarna Ljubljana seed company, and is depicted on the Slovenian 5 cent euro coin.. 
The Adoration of the Shepherds. Author Name: El Greco. . Author Movement: http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mannerism. . The Adoration of the Shepherds is a painting of the  traditional subject which was painted during the last year of El Greco's life. The painting is a smaller version of a work which the artist made to hang over his own tomb in the church of Santo Domingo el Antiguo in Toledo. El Greco's signature, in Greek, may be seen in the lower left corner.. The Adoration of the Shepherds is a painting of the traditional subject which was painted during the last year of El Greco's life. The painting is a smaller version of a work which the artist made to hang over his own tomb in the church of Santo Domingo el Antiguo in Toledo. El Greco's signature, in Greek, may be seen in the lower left corner. Extreme distortion of body characterizes the Adoration of the Shepherds like all the last paintings of El Greco. The brilliant, "dissonant" colours and the strange shapes and poses create a sense of wonder and ecstasy, as the shepherd and angels celebrate the miracle of the newly born child. The infant Christ seems to emit a light which plays off the faces of the barefoot shepherds who have gathered to pay homage to his miraculous birth. A rhythmic energy animates the painting, expressed in the dance-like motions of the figures. Striking contrasts between light and dark passages heighten the sense of drama. The group of angels which hovers over the scene may resemble the missing section of The Opening of the Fifth Seal. In 1618, El Greco's assistant, Luis Tristán, said that his teacher was working The Adoration of the Shepherds until his death. The painting was later transferred to the high altar of the Monastery Santo Domingo El Antiguo. In 1954 it was acquired by the Museo del Prado in Madrid.. 
Acton. Author Name: James Turrell. . . Acton is an artwork created by American artist James Turrell in 1976, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States of America. It consists of two rooms with an aperture between them, carefully illuminated such that the rectangular hole appears to be a flat, gray canvas until closer inspection reveals its three-dimensional nature.. Acton is an artwork created by American artist James Turrell in 1976, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States of America. It consists of two rooms with an aperture between them, carefully illuminated such that the rectangular hole appears to be a flat, gray canvas until closer inspection reveals its three-dimensional nature.. 
The Afro-Colombian Mural: Currulao y Desplazamiento. Author Name: Bergener, Joel. . . The Afro-Colombian Mural: Currulao y Desplazamiento, located at 1344 U Street NW, Washington D.C, is a public mural that celebrates the Afro-Colombian culture of the District and increases public awareness about the widespread displacement and other human rights violations related to the ongoing armed conflict in Colombia. The mural was funded by the DC Commission on the Arts and Humanities.. The Afro-Colombian Mural: Currulao y Desplazamiento, located at 1344 U Street NW, Washington D.C, is a public mural that celebrates the Afro-Colombian culture of the District and increases public awareness about the widespread displacement and other human rights violations related to the ongoing armed conflict in Colombia. The mural was funded by the DC Commission on the Arts and Humanities.. 
